What is a treasury bill?
Short term, highly liquid government securities issued at a discount from the face value and returning the face amount at maturity. 
What is financial engineering?
The use of mathematical models and computer-based trading technology to synthesize new financial products.
What is the bid-ask spread?
The difference between the asked and bid price, which is the dealers' source of profit.
What does a bankers' acceptance start as?
It starts as an order to a bank by an bank's customer to pay a sum of money at a future date, typically within 6 months.
Who are municipal bonds issued by?
State and local governments.
What is preferred stock?
Has features similar to both equity and debt and promises to pay to its holder a fixed amount of income each year.
What is a long position?
A position held by the trader who commits to delivering the asset at contract maturity.
What is a brokered market?
Markets where trading in a good is active, brokers find it profitable to offer search services to buyers and sellers.
What is a program trade?
A coordinated purchase or sale of an entire portfolio.
What does equity funds invest in?
Primarily in stock.
Where does global funds invest?
In securities worldwide.
Variance is equal to what?
Expected value of squared deviations.
What is the efficient frontier of risky assets?
The part of the frontier that lies above the global minimum-variance portfolio.
What is the equation for current beta?
Current beta= a + b (Past Beta)
What does CAPM provide?
Discount rates that help security analysts assess the intrinsic value of a firm.
Why do we use the term virtually certain?
Because we must distinguish this conclusion from the statement that all securities surely fulfill this relationship. 
What is the technical analysis?
Essentially the search for recurrent and predictable patterns in stock prices.
What is mental accounting?
A specific form of framing in which people segregate certain decisions.
Who is the Dow Theory named after?
Charles Dow
What is the confidence index?
The ratio of the average yield on 10 top-rated corporate bonds divided by the average yield on 10 intermediate-grade corporate bonds.
What is a bond?
A security that is issued in connection with borrowing arrangement.
Yield to maturity is calculated on what assumption?
That the bond will be held until maturity.
Original- issue discount bonds are?
Bonds that are issued intentionally with low coupon rates that cause the bond to sell at a discount from par value.
What are liquidity ratios?
Ratios that measure the firm's ability to pay bills coming due with its most liquid assets.
What is a cash flow- to- debt ratio?
The ratio of total cash flow to outstanding debt.
What is a short rate?
The interest rate for the interval available at different points in time.
Is the liquidity premium predicted to be negative or positive?
Positive.
What is a term premium?
The spread between yields on long- and short- term bonds.
What does Macaulay's duration equals?
The weighted average of the times to each coupon or principal payment made by the bond. 
What does future options give you the right to do?
It gives their holder the right to buy or sell a specific futures contract, using as a futures price the exercise price of the option.
What does a put option do? 
It gives you the right to sell an asset at the exercise price.
What is a covered call?
The purchase of a share of stock with a simultaneous sale of a call on that stock.
What is a spread?
A combination of two or more call options on the same stock with different exercise process or times to maturity. 
What is a collar?
An option strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds.
What is a long straddle?
Established by buying both a call and a put on a stock, each with the same exercise price.
What is the binomial model?
The probability of each outcome is described by the binomial distribution.
What is a option's hedge ratio?
The change in the price of an option for a 1$ increase on the stock price.
What is a stop-loss order?
A sell order to be executed if the price of the stock falls below a stipulated level.
What is utility?
The measure of the welfare or satisfaction of an investor.
What is volatility risk?
The risk in the value of options portfolios due to unpredictable changes in the volatility of the underlying asset. 
What are real assets?
Real assets are land, buildings, machines, and knowledge that can be used to produce goods and services. 
What are financial assets?
Financial assets are how individuals hold their claims on real assets.
What are debt securities?
Financial assets that promise either a fixed stream of income or a stream of income that is determined according to a specified formula.
What is equity?
Equity represents an ownership share in a corporation. 
Which is more risky debt or equity?
Equity is more risky because is tied directly to the success of the firm and its real assets.
What is derivative securities?
Derivative securities provide payoffs that are determined by the prices of other assets such as bonds or stock.
What is the primary use of derivative securities?
The primary use is to hedge risk or transfer them to other parties. 
What is consumption timing?
It is when an individual wants to shift their consumption over the course of their lifetime to periods that will provide the greatest satisfaction.
What is an agency problem?
It is a conflict of interest because managers, who are hired as agents of the shareholders, may pursue their own interest instead.
What is a proxy contest?
This is when unhappy shareholders seek to obtain enough proxies to vote in another board of directors.
What are proxies?
Proxies are the rights to vote the shares of other shareholders. 
What is an investor's portfolio?
A portfolio is a collection of investment assets.
What is asset allocation?
This is the choice between broad asset classes like common stock and bonds. 
What is a top-down portfolio? 
This is when an investor builds their portfolio using asset allocation.
What is a bottom-up portfolio?
This is when an investor builds their portfolio from securities that seem underpriced. 
What is security analysis? 
Security analysis is the valuation of securities that may be included in a portfolio.
What is security selection? 
Security selection is determining which particular securities to hold within each asset class.
What is a risk-return trade-off?
This is when higher risk assets are expected to provide a higher rate of return.
What is financial engineering?
Financial engineering is the creation of new financial assets by using mathematical models and computer based trading technology.
What is the ask price?
The price at which an investor has to pay to buy from a securities dealer.
What is the bid price?
The price an investor gets when selling to a dealer.
What is the bid-ask spread?
It is the difference between the ask and bid prices and it is how the dealer makes money.
How do Corporations barrow money from public investors?
Corporations barrow money by issuing corporate bonds.
What type of index is the Dow Jones Average?
The Dow Jones Average is a price-weighted index.
What is a market-value-weighted index?
A market-value-weighted index is an index based off the market cap of the firms inside the index.
What is an example of a market-value-weighted index?
An example of a market-value-weighted index is the S&P 500.
What is a dealer market?
A dealer market is a market where a dealer buys and sells stock to other investors.
How does a dealer make money?
Dealers make money throughout the bid-ask spread.
What is a market order?
A market order is an order that is to be executed immediately at the market price.
What is a limit order?
A limit order is an order that specifies a price investors are willing to buy or sell a security.
Does a market order provide liquidity to the market?
No, a market order takes liquidity from the market.
What is buying on margin?
Buying on margin is when the investor barrows part of the purchase price from their broker.
What is a call option?
A call option gives the holder the right to buy an asset at a set price.
What is a put option?
A put option gives the holder the right to sell an asset at a set price.
When is an option in the money?
An option is in the money when exercising it would create a profit.
When is an option out of the money?
An option is out of the money when exercising it would create a loss.
When is an option at the money?
An option is at the money when its exercise and stock price are the same.
What is the difference between an American option and a European option?
The difference is that an American option can be exercised anytime on or before the expiration date while a European option can only be exercised on its expiration date.
What is a convertible bond?
A convertible bond is bond that the owner has the ability to convert to the companies stock at a set price.
Why would an investor enter into a straddle position?
An investor would enter into a straddle position if they expect a stock to be more volatile than the market expects.
What is asset allocation?
The best fitting area for your assets. Either a person is a moderate investor, aggressive, or conservative. Each of these will change the older one gets. 
What is the human-value life approach in insurance?
A method of calculating how much life insurance a family will need based on if a family loss were to occur. 
Is it ok to be the owner of your own insurance policy?
It is recommended that either a spouse or beneficiary be the owner 
When is the best time to become a risky investor?
After learning the ropes of investing, would be a beneficial time to start to increase risk.
What is time-value of money?
Inflation causes funds to be worth more over time. A simple time value of money calculation determines how much funds will be worth in the future. 
What is the difference between corporate and personal finance?
Corporate finance deals with the analysis and investment decisions of a business, and personal finance deals more with the one on one client meetings in hopes of conducting personal financial planning relationships. 
What are the components of personal financial planning?
Cash budgeting, income tax planning, insurance, investments, retirement planning, and estate planning. 
What is a key element to debt management?
To not finance assets longer than someone's life. 
What is the first step in the financial planning process?
Establish and define the relationship 
What is the difference between corporate and personal finance?
Corporate finance focuses more on investments and financing decisions in a company, while personal finance is more of a one on one relationship with clients in the hopes of creating a financial plan for life. 
What is the declaration date?
The date in which a firm's director announces a payment of a dividend. 
What is discount interest?
Interest that is calculated on a face amount of a loan. 
What is free cash flow (FCF)?
The cash flow available for distribution to all investors after the company or firm has made all investments in fixed assets. 
What is gross profit margin?
The ratio between sales and cost of goods sold. 
When is it appropriate to use liquidity ratios?
When analyzing the relationship between a firm's cash and current assets. 
What is a mortgage bond?
A bond where a company will pledge certain assets as security. 
What is the par value?
The nominal or face value of a stock or bond. 
What is sensitivity analysis?
Determines how much of net present value will change with different input values. 
What are treasury bonds?
Bonds issued by the federal government. 
What is a yield curve?
A curve developed by the plotting of maturity on y-axis, and the maturity is plotted on the x-axis. 
What are the three types of arbitrages?
Locational, triangular, and covered interest. 
What are capital markets?
Financial markets that facilitate the flow of long-term funds. 
What is a currency swap?
An agreement that allows periodic swap of one currency of one currency for another at specified exchange rates. 
What are debt securities?
Securities that represent credit provided to the initial issuer by the purchaser. 
What is the federal loan mortgage amortization?
An organization that issues mortgage-backed securities and then uses the funds to purchase mortgages. 
What is Gap?
Rate-sensitive assets must rate-sensitive liabilities. 
What are interest rate futures?
Financial futures contracts on debt securities such as Treasury bills, bonds, or notes. 
What are money markets?
Financial markets that the flow of short-term funds. 
How does oil price affect a company?
It depends on the collections and payments of a company. The future oil price is far more important to consider, rather than the present price. 
Is goodwill equivalent to brand value?
The goodwill is the price paid and the book value. 
If WACC is applied a certain project, should it be the expected return, historical data, or an opportunity cost on similar projects?
Neither book values or market values are used. The values used are from current variations in the company. 
Which taxes are used in the free cash flow (FCF)?
The hypothetical ones that would be used by a company if they didn't have any debt. 
What is the difference between the simple return and weighted return to shareholders?
The return that is stated on databases is the simple return, and the weighted return to shareholders is determined during a period of time in which the internal rate of return capitalization is at the beginning of the period. 
What is a 3x1 stock split?
An operation in which you get three new shares for each shares you used to possess. 
What is the impact of inflation on a company?
Inflation increases the uncertainty for a company and makes decision making a lot more difficult. 
What is capital cash flow?
The cash flow that is available to all holders of securities of the company. 
Is it better to buy shares of a company, or its assets?
The decision lies solely on the company's fiscal well being, and the responsibility related to the value of asset holdings. 
Why do a split?
It reduces the price of a share in order to increase liquidity. 
Is it possible to use the same WACC when debt changes?
If the debt changes, in return the WACC will change as well. 
Are there ways to analyze and value seasonal businesses?
The way to value these types of businesses is by analyzing their monthly data. There are not many links to seasonality having a high impact on company valuation.
What is an option?
The right to buy or sell stock at a specified price in the future.
What is the different between American and European options?
American can exercise before expiration but European can only be exercised at expiration. 
How do dividends affect stock price?
The higher the dividend the lower the stock price will be dividends are cash out. 
When are options in the money?
When the intrinsic value is greater than 0.
When are options out of the money?
When intrinsic value is equal to 0.
What is intrinsic value of a call option?
The maximum of the stock price minus exercise price, and zero.
What is the intrinsic value of a put option?
The maximum of the exercise price minus stock price, and zero.
What is the profit of a call option?
Intrinsic value minus price of option
What is the profit of a put option?
Price of the option minus intrinsic value
What is the option writer's relationship with the option?
Opposite of the buyer's action and profit.
What is a callable option?
A company has the right to buy back stock.
Is callable or putable riskier?
Callable will have a higher interest with greater risk. 
What is a convertible option?
Buying a bond with the option to turn it into stock.
Is a convertible option risky for the buyer?
Not really, they general have a low yield because if the company that issued the bond does bad the buyer gets the yield of the bond, but if they do good the buyer can turn into stock for the extra return. 
What is a warrant?
Issued by the company and acts like a call option.          
How do warrants affect shares outstanding?                                   
When exercised, shares outstanding will increase. 
What does gamma calculate?
The rate of change of delta.
When is gamma the greatest?
In the money.
What does Vega calculate?
The change in velocity.
What are debt securities?
Promises to repay someone a fixed amount at some specified time in the future.
What are equity securities?
Residual claims to received anything left over.
What are derivative securities?
Contingent claims that derive value from something else.
What are derivative securities used for?
Risk management.
What is the purpose of free markets?
The fluctuation in price and substitutes to follow prevent products from being consumed fully. 
What is a top down portfolio?
Establishes the amount of stock wanted and then the remainder percentage is bonds.
What is a bottom up portfolio?
A security selection comes in and tries to find and invest in mispriced assets in the market. 
What is an efficient market?
When information is processed quickly and accurately to be incorporated into the market prices. 
What is financial engineering?
Trading portfolios constructed to provide specific payoffs. 
What do we mean when we say cash?
A medium of exchange that also effectively stores value.
Why do we use a value weighted index?
Used to regress portfolios, track progress, and hedge portfolios.
What is ask vs bid?
Ask is price investors will buy at and will sell at bid. (Opposite for dealers)
What price does a market order buy/sell at?
Will buy/or sell at best price available in the order book.
What does a limit order do?
Sets the highest price to be paid, or lowest price to sell at.
Why would we use a stop order; does it guarantee?
To limit losses, no. 
Do market or limit orders take liquidity from market?
Market orders because they decrease the quantities available and would increase price. 
What is shorting?
Selling share that are not actually owned with the intention to eventually buy them back. 
What is a stock?
A more general term meaning you own shares of a company.
What is a share?
Ownership certificates showing you own some of the specified company. 
What is a bond?
Issued by companies, states and governments to help finance activities. 
What is a mutual fund?
A pool of investments (portfolio) created by a money manager by placing money into a variety of different investment types.
What is the difference between a call option and a put option?
A call option gives you the right to buy a specified asset at a specified price on or before a particular date while a put option gives you the right to sell a specified asset at a specified price on or before a particular date.  
Who is the market maker?
A dealer in securities or other assets who undertakes to buy or sell at specified prices at all times.  
What is margin?    
Deposit an amount of money with a broker as security (for an account or transaction).  
What stock has the biggest effect on the index?
The stock with the biggest value.
How do you sell stock short?
You sell stock you don't own.
What is the formula for margin percentage?
Equity/Market Value
What are the three different kinds of traders in the market?
Informed, Liquidity, and Noise traders.  
What is an ETF?
Open-end funds that are passively managed.
What happens when you exercise a warrant?
When warrants are exercised, it increases the number of outstanding shares, when you exercise this, the stock price declines.  
What is the premium?
The purchase price of an option.  
What does it mean when an option is in the money?
When its exercise would produce profits for its holder.  
What does it mean when an option is out of the money?
When its exercise would be unprofitable.
What does it mean when an option is at the money?
When the exercise price and asset price are equal.  
What is an American option?
An American option allows its holder to exercise the right to purchase (if a call) or sell (if a put) the underlying asset on or before the expiration date.
What is an European option?
An European option allows for the exercise of the option only on the expiration date.  
What is a covered call?
A covered call position is the purchase of a share of stock with a simultaneous sale of a call on that stock.  
What is a straddle?
A long straddle is established by buying both a call and a put on a stock, each with the same exercise price, X, and the same expiration date, T.  
What is a spread?
A spread is a combination of two or more call options (or two or more puts) on the same stock with differing exercise prices or times to maturity.  
What is a collar?
A collar is an options strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds. 
What is a warrant?  
Warrants are essentially call options issued by a firm.  
What is intrinsic value?
It is the payoff that could be obtained by immediate exercise of in-the-money call options.  
What is the time value of an option?  
The difference between the actual call price and the intrinsic value is commonly called the time value of the option.  
What is the implied volatility of an option?  
The volatility level for the stock implied by the option price.
What is the pseudo-American call option value?  
It is the maximum  of the value derived by assuming that the option will be held until expiration and the value derived by assuming that the option will be held until expiration and the value derived by assuming that the option will be exercised just before an ex-dividend date.  
What is an option's hedge ratio?
It is the change in the price of an option for a $1 increase in the stock price.  
What is option elasticity?
It is the percentage change in option price per percentage change in stock price.  
What is portfolio insurance?
 It is to limit the worst-case portfolio rate of return.  
What is gamma?
It is the sensitivity of the delta to the stock price.  
What does it mean if your portfolio is delta neutral?  
This means that the portfolio has no tendency to either increase or decrease in value when the stock price fluctuates.  
What is volatility risk?  
It is the risk incurred from unpredictable changes in volatility.  
What is a futures contract?
It is an agreement traded on an organized exchange to buy or sell assets, especially commodities or shares, at a fixed price but to be delivered and paid for later.  
What is an open-end fund?
Open-end funds stand ready to redeem or issue shares at their net asset value (although both purchases and redemptions may involve sales charges).  
What are closed-end funds?  
Closed-end funds do not redeem or issue shares.  
What are unit investment trusts?  
Unit investment trusts are pools of money invested in a portfolio that is fixed for the life of the fund.  
What are hedge funds?
Hedge funds are vehicles that allow private investors to pool assets to be invested by a fund manager.  
What is a stop order?
A stop order is when the trade is not to be executed unless the stock hits a price limit.
What is a short sale?  
A short sale allows investors to profit from a decline in a security's price.  
What is inside information?  
Inside information is private information held by officers, directors, or major stockholders that has not yet been divulged to the public.  
What is a program trade?  
A program trade is a coordinated purchase or sale of an entire portfolio of stocks.  
What is an auction market?
An auction market is a market in which all traders converge at one place (either physically or "electronically") to buy or sell an asset.
What is a financial market and what is its role?
A financial market is term used to describe a marketplace where buyers and sellers participate in the trade of assets such as equities, bonds, currencies, and derivatives. 
What are the maturities of a T-bill, notes, and bonds?
T-bills = less than 1 year, notes = 1-10 years, bonds = greater than 10 years
Describe a hedge fund. 
a vehicle that allows private investors to pool assets to be invested by a fund manager.
Name two characteristics of common stock and define them.
Two characteristics are residual claim which means that stockholders are the last in line of all those who have a claim on the assets and income of the corporation. Another characteristic is limited liability which means that the most shareholders can lose in the event of failure of the corporation is their original investment. 
What is a put and call option?
A put option gives its holder the right to sell and a call option gives its holder the right to buy. 
What is the difference between and American option and a European option?
An American option allows its owner to exercise its right to buy or sell on or before the expiration date. A European option allows its owner to exercise its option only on the expiration date.
Describe futures options.
Futures options gives the owner the right to buy or sell a specified futures contract, using as futures price the exercise price of the option. 
What is a spread?
A spread is a combination of two or more call/put options on the same stock with differing exercise prices or times to maturity. 
Describe the put-call parity theorem. 
Defines the relationship between the price of a European call option and European put option, both with identical stock price and expiration dates. 
What is a callable bond?
A callable bond arrangement is the sale of a straight bond to the investor and the concurrent insurance of a call option by the investor to the bond-issuing firm. 
Describe a collateralized loan.
It's a loan arrangement that requires the borrower to put up collateral to guarantee that the loan will be paid back.
Describe a warrant.
Basically, a call option issued by a firm.
What is portfolio insurance?
A method of hedging a portfolio of stocks against the market risk by short selling stock index futures.
What is the volatility risk of a stock?
It is risk that is incurred from unpredictable changes in volatility.  
The futures contracts call for delivery of a commodity at a specified delivery or maturity date, for an agreed-upon price called?
Futures price
What is the maintenance margin?
If a trader accrues sustained losses from daily marking to market, the margin account may fall below a critical value called a maintenance margin.
What is the Black-Scholes Model?
A model of price variation over time of financial instruments such as stocks that can, among other things, be used to determine the price of a European option. 
What is the Monte Carlo simulation?
It is used to model the probability of different outcomes in a process that cannot easily be predicted due to the intervention of random variables. 
What are futures and forward contracts?
Are like options in that they specify purchase or sale of some underlying security at some future date. 
What is the basis risk in hedging?
It is the difference between the futures price and the spot price. 
What is a basic investment?
It's a current commitment of money or other resources in the expectation of reaping future benefits.
Distinguish the difference between real assets and financial assets?
Real assets are land, buildings, machines, and knowledge that can be used to produce goods and services and financial assets are securities that are no more than sheets of paper or, computer entries and do not contribute directly to the productive capacity of the economy. 
What is equity in a firm represent?
Ownership share in the corporation. 
Name three types of financial assets.
Fixed-Income, equity, and derivatives.
What are derivative securities?
Are options and futures contracts provide payoffs that are determined by the prices of other assets such as bond or stock prices.
What are potential conflicts of interest?
Agency Problems.
What are investment companies?
Companies that pool and manage the money of many investors and arise out of economies of scale. 
What is financial engineering?
It is the use of mathematical models and computer-based trading technology to synthesize new financial products. 
What is the difference between the asking price and the bid price?
The asking price is the price you would have to pay to buy a T-bill from a securities dealer. The bid price is the slightly lower price you would receive if you wanted to sell a bill to a dealer. 
What is the bid-asked spread?
The difference between the asking price and the bid price. This is the dealers source of profit. 
What are dollar denominated deposits at foreign banks or foreign branches of American Banks.
Eurodollars.
What does LIBOR stand for?
London Interbank Offered Rate.
What is a bond denominated in a currency other than that of the country in which it is issued called?
Eurobond.
What is NAV?
Net Asset Value.
What are greeks?
Greeks are dimensions of risk involved in taking a position in an option or other derivative. 
Name 5 greeks.
Delta, Vega, Theta, Rho, Lambda.
What is CAL and what does it depict?
It's the capital allocation line and it depicts all the risk-return combinations available to investors. 
What is the difference between in the money and out of the money?
In the money when an option is exercised that would produce profits for its holder and out of the money is when an exercised option is unprofitable. 
When is an option at the money?
When an options exercise price and asset price are equal.
What are Asian options?
Options with payoffs that depend on the average price of the underlying asset during at least some portion of the life of the option.
What is a debt security?
A promise to repay someone a fixed amount
What is an equity security?
A residual claim to get anything left over 
What is a derivative security?
A contingent claim; value is derived from something else
What is consumption timing?
Trying to spread consumption over a period of time
What is financial engineering?
Trading constructed to provide specific payoff 
What is the definition of cash?
A medium of exchange and it effectively stores value
Why does the government issue treasury bills?
So that companies can use them as cash
What does bid price mean?
Dealers buy at this price, investors sell
What does ask price mean?
Dealers sell at this price, investors buy
What is a market order?
Buy or sell a stock now 
What is a book transaction?
When you trade over 10,000 shares and want to split the order up so you don't signal your intentions
What is shorting?
Selling shares you don't own and making money when the price goes down.
What is equity with margin shorting?
Comes from and earns from shorting stock and money borrowed from margin
When you're shorting when do you get a margin call?
When price goes up
What is an informed buyer?
Someone who knows something that the market doesn't
What is a liquidity buyer?
Someone who trades for their own reasons
What is a noise buyer?
Someone who thinks they're an informed buyer, but they're not really informed
What is a maintenance margin?
An amount set by brokers to limit their loss
What are the negative effects of a mutual fund?
Active management and high costs outweigh the benefits.
What is a hedge fund?
An unregulated pool of capital uncorrelated with the market
What is a fiduciary duty?
A legal obligation to work on behalf of the client
What is rate trading?
Allows people to trade after closing, but still get the closing prices
What is an option writer?
Person who sells the call and has total obligation to sell
If intrinsic value is greater than zero?
It's in the money and price is sensitive
If intrinsic value is equal to the strike price?
It's at the money and price is somewhat sensitive
If intrinsic value is equal to zero?
It's out of the money and price is not sensitive
When is a call profitable?
When stock price is greater than strike price
When is a put profitable? 
When strike price is greater than stock price
What is a benefit of an option?
An option gives the average position on stock insurance and limits loss.
When would you buy stock to match the change in a put?
When stock price increases and the change in price equals zero
when would you sell stock to match a change in a put?
When stock price decreases and the change in price is negative one.
What is a cover call?
Gives up potential gain to do better below units risk because stock risk is greater than risk of the option
What is a protective put?
A trade off that equals the lowered gain of the option
What is a collar call?
Combo of protective put and covered call; finances protective put through the sale of a covered call
What is a straddle?
A bet on volatility. As volatility increases, stock price increases
What is a callable bond?
When the company can buy back stock (they buy a bond and sell a call)
What is a putable bond?
When the company has the right to sell back stock
What is a convertible bond?
Buy a bond with an option to change it into stock 
Why would a company use a convertible bond?
To use for risk, if a company is doing poorly they get the yield. If they're doing well they turn to stock and they get the return off of the stock prices
What is a warrant?
Issued by the company and acts like a call option
What is a call option?
Provides the owner the right to buy asset at a set price on (or before) expiration
What is a put option?
A put option provides the owner the right to sell asset at set price on (or before) expiration
What is the difference between an American and European option?
An American option provides the owner to exercise the option on or before the expiration, whereas, an European option must be excercised on the expiration date
When is an option considered in the money?
When the intrinsic value is greater than zero
How do you calculate the profit for a call option?
Intrinsic value- Premium
Can an American option premium be less than the options intrinsic value?
No, people will buy and sell immediately 
What are the three types of traders?
Informed, liquidity, noise traders.
What type of traders do brokers want in the market?
Noise
What is a Protective Put? 
When a individual buys stock for a certain amount and buys a put option with a strike price lower
What is the max gain for a protective put?
Unbounded
What is a Protective Put similar to?
Stop-loss order
Do market orders take or give liquidity?
Take
Do limit orders give or take liquidity?
Give
What is a callable bond?
Straight bond where an issuer can buy back (Buyer of bond and seller of call to company)
What is arbitrage?
A zero-risk, zero net investment strategy that still generates profits
What is the binomial model?
An option- valuation model predicated on the assumption that stock prices can move to only two values over any short time period
What is the bid-asked spread?
The difference between a dealer's bid and asked price
What is the bid price?
The price at which a dealer is willing to purchase a security
What is bogey?
The return an investment manager is compared to for performance evaluation
What  is bond indenture?
The contract between the issuer and the bondholder
What is a calendar spread?
Buy one option and write another with a different expiration date
What is a covered call?
A combination of selling a call on a stock together with buying the stock
What is doubling option?
A sinking fund provision that may allow repurchase of twice the required number of bonds at the sinking fund call price
What is a fair game?
An investment prospect that has a zero risk premium
What is a forward contract?
An agreement calling for future delivery of an asset at an agreed-upon price
What is gamma?
The curvature of an option pricing function
What is a hedge fund?
A private investment pool, open to institutional or wealthy investors, that is largely exempt from the SEC regulations 
What is hedging?
Investing in an asset to reduce the overall risk of a portfolio
What is pairs trading?
Stocks are paired up based on underlying similarities, and long-shorts positions are established to exploit any relative mispricing between each price
What is proxy?
An instrument empowering an agent to vote in the name of the shareholders?
What is a risky asset?
An asset with an uncertain rate or return
You buy a 100 call for $3 and buy 100 put for $4, what is the max loss? 
$7
What is a supply shock?
An event that influences production capacity and costs in the economy
What is a underwriter?
Investment bankers who help companies issue their securities to the public
You buy a stock for $100 and buy a put with a 90 strike for $3, what is the max gain?
The max gain is unbounded.
You buy stock for $100, sell call with $110 strike for $3 and buy a put with $90 strike for 4 dollars, what is the breakeven?
$101
You buy a 100 call for $3 and buy a 100 put for $4, what is the breakeven?
$107 and $93
What is a warrant?
An option issued by the firm to purchase shares of the firm's stock
What is volatility risk?
The risk in the value of options portfolios due to unpredictable changes in the volatility of the underlying asset
What is tracking error?
The difference between the return on a specified portfolio and that of a benchmark portfolio designed to mimic that portfolio
What is a swaption?
An option on a swap
What is the goal of investments?
To consume as much as you can. 
What do free markets facilitate?
New opportunities for new products, competition of substitutes and prevent shortages.
What do financial assets have claims on?
Real assets.
What does an efficient market do?
An efficient market quickly and accurately transforms information into prices.
What do T-Bills, T-Notes and T-Bonds function like
Cash.
Do market orders take or provide liquidity?
Take.
Do limit orders take or provide liquidity?
Provide.
What is a block transaction?
A block transaction is when you trade a large amount of shares.
On what kind of funds to you short sell on?
Borrowed funds.
Are gains and losses magnified or scaled down when trading on margin?
Magnified. 
Do brokers have the right to sell your stock if it falls below a certain dollar amount?
Yes, the brokers have the right. 
What are informed traders?
People that know something about the market exclusively . 
What are liquidity traders?
People that trade for their own reasons. 
What are noise traders?
People that think they are informed, but have just as much information as everyone else.
What type of trader do brokers make the most money off of?
Noise traders
What does a market maker do?
A market maker posts bids and asks in the market.
What type of trader do brokers make the least amount of money off of?
Informed traders
Can the financial industry change the number of liquidity traders in the market?
No, the financial industry cannot change the number of liquidity traders in the market.
How do you increase the number of noise traders in the market?
You increase the number of noise traders by making them think they are informed on the market.
What is the net asset value of a fund?
It is the intrinsic value of the fund
Are closed end funds actively managed?
Yes, closed end funds are actively managed. 
What is a fiduciary?
A fiduciary is an entity that has the legal obligation to work on your clients behalf.
Why might a mutual fund buy/sell a lot?
The market maker/ broker will make a lot of money. 
Are call options lower or higher when stock prices go up?
Lower.
Are put options higher or lower when stock prices go up?
Higher.
If the intrinsic value of an option is greater than 0, is it at, in or out of the money?
In the money.
If the intrinsic value of an option is less than 0, is it at, in or out of the money?
Out of money.
If the intrinsic value of an option is equal to 0, is it at, in or out of the money?
At the money.
Would you exercise a call option on an American option before expiration?
No.
Is the Black-Scholes model correct?
Yes, in the world it was created in/for. 
If a futures price is hedge, what should it equal in the future?
It should equal the stock price in future.
If you cross hedge, is it more or less risky?
Cross hedging is more risky.
What kind of claim is a stock?
A stock is a subordinate claim. 
Is a secured loan asset backed?
Yes, a secured loan is asset backed?
What is the goal of a firm?
The goal of a firm is to maximize shareholder wealth.
What does the term “par-value” mean?
Par value is the amount the issuer of the bond agrees to pay to the lender by the maturity date.
Do preferred stockholder get paid last or first in the event of a company failure?
Preferred stockholders get paid first. 
What does a put option do?
A put option provides the holder the option to sell the underlying option at the stated exercise price.
What does a call option do?
A call option provides the holder the option to buy the underlying option at the stated exercise price
What does a contingent claim do?
A contingent claim gives you the right not not the obligation to buy/sell. 
What is a stock?
Stock is ownership in a company. 
What is a bond? 
A bond is a debt obligation with promise of repayment sometime in the future. 
What is a dividend?
A dividend is a payment to stockholders from gains or reserves of a company.  
What is a financial asset?
Financial assets are claims to the real assets of a firm and claims to the income of real assets.
What is a derivative security? 
A derivative is security that derives its value from another asset. 
What do financial markets do?
Financial markets do two things organize a society and control a society's wants and needs. 
What is market efficiency? 
Market efficiency is the speed at which new information is integrated into a markets price. 
What is the difference between the Dow Jones and the S&P 500?
The Dow Jones is a price weighted index, and the S&P 500 is a value weighted index.
Is the Dow Jones a value weighted index?
No, it is a price weighted index, a price weighted index sums the selling price of the firm's stock in the index and then divides that by the total number of firms. 
Is the S&P 500 a price weighted index?
No, it is a value weighted index.
What is a Value weighted index? 
A value weighted index takes the sum of the market caps of the firm in the index and divides by the set date to determine value.
What does it mean to short a stock?
Shorting is selling a stock and having the proceeds credited to your account without selling actual shares making you short on those shares meaning at some point in the future you will have to buy shares or use shares you own to close the position. 
If I short a stock do I want the price to go up or down?
You would want the price to go down so that the closing position will cost you less. 
What does it mean to hold a long position in a stock?
It means that you own the stock.  
If I am holding a long position do I want the price of the stock to go up or down?
You would want the price of the stock to go up, so that you can sell your long position and have a gain. 
Do you purchase a stock at bid or ask price?
You purchase at the ask price. 
When looking at a stock what is the bid price? 
The price at which a dealer or perspective buyer is willing to pay for the stock.
What is a Block Sale?
A Block Sale is a transaction of more than 10,000 shares of stock.
How is margin percentage calculated? 
The equity value divided by the market value of a security.
What is a hedge fund?
Hedge funds are unregulated pools of capital that are able to buy any type of security available.
What is a mutual fund?
Mutual fund is a firm pooling and managing funds from small investors. These types of funds have limits to what they can purchase.  
What is an Index fund?
It is a mutual fund holding shares in proportion to their representation to a market index. 
What is an exchange?
An auction market that allows for the trading of securities.
What is a call option?
The right to buy an asset at a specified date and for a specified price. 
What is a put option?
A put option is the right to sell an asset at a specified date and for a specified price. 
What is a strike price?
The price at which an option will be exercised.
What is an American option? 
An American option can be exercised before or on the expiration date.
What is a European option?
A European option can only be exercised on the expiration date.
What does it mean if a bond is convertible?
A convertible bond can be turned into common stock in the firm.
A money market includes what kind of investments?   
Short term investment, with high liquidity and low risk.
What is a capital market?
Capital markets are made up of longer term, higher risk investments.  
What does it mean if an investment is bullish?
A bullish investment is an optimistic investment that expects market growth.
What does it mean if the market is bearish?
A bearish market means that the view of expected return is pessimistic.
What is the beta of a stock?
Beta is the measurement of the systematic risk of a security. 
What is hedging?
Investing in a security or asset to lower the risk of a portfolio. 
When is an investment at the money?
At the money describes an option that has an exercise and asset price that is the same. 
When is an investment in the money?
In the money describes an option that when exercised would have a positive value. 
When is an investment out of the money?
Out of the money describes an option that is worthless; the holder would lose money if exercised.   
What is a zero coupon bond? 
A zero coupon bond has no periodic payments; rather it sells at a discount and pays its face value at maturity.
What is meant when someone says they are righting a call?
It means they are selling a call option.
What is an investment?
An investment is a commitment of current resources with the expectation of deriving greater resources in the future. 
What are real assets?
Real assists are land, buildings, and equipment that are used to produce goods and services.
What are financial assets?
Financial assets are claims, such as securities, to the income generated by real assets.
What is a put option?
A put option is the right to sell an assets at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date. 
What is a call option?
A call option is the right to buy an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date.
What is a dealer's market?
A market where traders specializing in particular commodities buy and sell assets for their own accounts. Example over the counter market.
When did options start to sell in the U.S.?
Options started selling in the United States in 1973.
When is an option considered 'in the money'? 
An option is considered 'in the money' when its intrinsic value is greater than 0.
When is an option considered 'at the money'? 
An option is considered 'at the money' when its intrinsic value is equal to 0.
When is an option considered 'out of the money'?
An option is considered 'out of the money' when its intrinsic value is less than 0.
What is the intrinsic value of an option?
The stock price minus the strike price, or the profit that could be attained by immediate exercise of an in the money option. I=Max(X-S,0).
What is a bullish attitude?
A bullish attitude is an investor's optimistic attitude,
What is a bearish attitude?
A bearish attitude is an investor's pessimistic attitude.
What does an investor expect when he buys a 'straddle'?
A straddle spread means the investor believes the option will be more volatile than the market expects.
What is the face value of a bond?
The face value of a bond is the maturity value of the bond.
What is the put-call parity?
The put-call parity is an equation representing the proper relationship between put and call prices. 
What is a market order?
A market order is a buy or sell order to be executed immediately at current prices.
What is a hedge fund?
A hedge fund is a private investment pool open to wealthy investors or institutions that is largely exempt from SEC regulations.
What is hedging 
Hedging is investing in an asset(s) to reduce the overall risk of a portfolio. 
What is arbitrage?
Arbitrage is a zero-risk, zero-net investment strategy that still generates a profit.
What is the ask price?
The ask price is the price at which a dealer will sell a security. 
What is the bid price?
The bid price is the price at which an investor will buy a security. 
What is the bid-ask spread? 
The difference between a dealer's bid and asked prices.
What is a binomial pricing model?
A binomial pricing model is a valuation model that assumes a stock's price can move to only two values over any short time period. 
What is a calendar spread?
A spread that buys one option and sells another with a different expiration date. 
What is a callable bond?
A bond that the issuer may repurchase at a given price in a specified period of time.
What is a covered call?
A covered call is a combination of selling a call on a stock together with buying the stock.
What is a protective put? 
Purchase of a stock with a put option. Guarantees minimum proceeds equal to the put's exercise price.
What is the risk free rate?
The interest rate that can be earned with certainty.
What is the Put/Call ratio?
The put/call ratio is the ratio of put options to call options outstanding on a stock.
What is a limit order? 
An order specifying a price at which an investor is willing to buy or sell a security. 
What is leverage? 
The amount of debt used to finance a firm's assets.
What is a block transaction? 
A large transaction in which at least 10,000 stocks are bought or sold.
What is the market value (MV)?
MV is the price per share of a stock X the number of shares.
What do markets do?
Markets aggregate info into prices.
What are three types of investors?
The three types of investors are informed, noise, and liquidity. 
What is an informed investor?
An informed investor knows something that the market does not know.
What is a noise investor?
A noise investor thinks they are informed but they are not.
What is a liquidity investor?
An investor that trades for a specific reason like retirement.
What is the difference between an American option and a European option?  
A European option can only be exercised on the expiration not before.
What is a derivative?
A claim that is dependent on an underling security where money moves from one person to another
What determines an efficient market?
When information is quickly and accurately converted into price
What are treasury bills?
Short term debt securities with no default risk
What is a note?
A financial security that has a maturity of 1 to 10 years
What is a debenture?
An unsecured loan issued by a company - it is backed by general credit
How do you calculate price weighted index?
Stock Price Per Share / # of Different Stocks
What is a dealer?
A market maker
Who buys at the ask?
The Investor
Who sells at the ask?
The Market Maker (Dealer)
Who buys at the bid?
The Market Maker (Dealer)
Who sells at the bid?
The Investor
When do you use Market Orders?
When the investor is buying/selling small number of stocks ' not block transactions
When do you use a stop order?
When you want to limit your losses
What is a block transaction?
A trade that involves 10,000 or more shares of stock
What is Margin Percent?
Equity / Market Value
When does an investor get a margin call?
When the stock reaches the dealer's maintenance margin
How does a dividend payment affect price of a call option?
Call option is lower on higher paying dividends
How is intrinsic value calculated?
Maximum of: Stock Price less Strike Price or 0
How is profit calculated?
Intrinsic Value less Premium (what buyer paid)
When do you choose a Straddle?
When you expect the investment to be more volatile than the market predicts ' you gain whether the investment increases or decreases
When do you choose a Protective Put?
When you want to minimize losses
What is a callable bond?
A bond where the issuer has the option to buy the bond back from the buyer prior to expiration ' gives the holder a higher interest rate due to risk of the issuer buying the bond back
What is a puttable bond?
A bond where the buyer has the option to sell the bond back to the issuer prior to expiration ' gives the issuer a higher interest rate due to risk of the buyer selling the bond back
What is a convertible bond?
The buyer has the option to convert the bond into some number of stocks (according to value of bond and stocks)
How do you value a call option?
By replicating a stock and a bond
What happens to an option's price when volatility increases?
The option's price also increases
When does Basis equal 0?
When the spot price is the same as the futures price
When does Basis not equal 0?
When the price of futures differs from the spot price
What is cross hedging?
Using the futures contract of two commodities in the refinery process of the commodity that one wants to price since that single commodity does not have its own futures contract to buy/sell
What is the effect on Basis when cross hedging is used?
Basis risk increases
What is the primary market?
Where the company is directly involved in the exchange of assets ' whether they are the buyer or the seller ' causing a change in the number of shares outstanding
What is the secondary market?
Where assets are exchanged between people, separate of the company, the number of shares outstanding does not change
What is the maturity of a money market security?
Less than 1 year
What is the maturity of a capital market security?
More than 1 year
What is a blockholder?
A person owning 5%-10% of the corporation, and watching the corporation to ensure they are making decisions to increase their invested money.
What is 'Monetizing the Debt'?
When the Federal Reserve buys backs treasuries and other securities
What is the effect of budget deficits on interest rates?
It causes interest rates to increase due to crowding out
What is the effect of foreign flows on interest rates?
If foreign interest rates are low, it will keep interest rates low
What is the effect of liquidity on interest rates?
Less liquid debt yields higher interest rates
What is the effect of tax status on interest rates?
An increase in tax status increases interest rates
What is an investment?
The current commitment of money or another resource in the expectation of receiving benefits in the future.
What are examples of real assets?
Machines, land, buildings, knowledge, etc.
What is a derivative security?
A security that derives its value from something else, such as another security.
What do free markets do?
Free markets take information and put it into prices, which affects your behavior, thus organizing the way our society functions.
What do efficient markets do?
Efficient markets quickly and accurately incorporate information into the market.
What do inefficient markets do?
Inefficient markets slowly incorporate, or overshoot, information into the market.
How do we measure risk?
We may measure risk by using volatility, standard deviation, beta, etc.
Which stocks have the greatest affect on the price weighted index?
The stocks with the highest price have the greatest affect on the price weighted index.
What is a disadvantage of the market order?
If you are buying a lot, you will climb the price ladder, and as people notice this they will start raising their prices.
What do limit orders do to the market?
Limit orders provide liquidity to the market.
What do market orders do to the market?
Market orders take liquidity from the market.
Why will a broker set a maintenance margin?
A broker sets a maintenance margin at some point to fundamentally guarantee that they will always close you out in a position where you can still pay back your loan.
What is a margin account used for?
A margin account is used so you can buy or sell stock through your broker.
What is an option?
An option is a contract that gives the owner of an option the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an asset at a set strike, or exercise, price on or before expiration.
What does a call option give the owner?
A call option gives the owner the right to buy an asset at a set strike, or exercise, price on or before expiration.
What does a call option give the writer?
A call option makes the writer obligated to sell an asset at a set strike, or exercise, price on or before expiration.
What does a put option give the owner?
A put option gives the owner the right to sell an asset at a set strike, or exercise, price on or before expiration.
What does a put option give the writer?
A put option makes the writer obligated to buy an asset at a set strike, or exercise, price on or before expiration.
What type of option will be lower on higher dividend-paying stocks?
A call option will be lower on higher dividend-paying stocks.
What type of option will be higher on higher dividend-paying stocks?
A put option will be higher on higher dividend-paying stocks.
What does a convertible bond allow you to do?
A convertible bond gives you the option to convert a bond into stock.
What is a collateralized loan?
A collateralized loan is a loan backed by collateral, which acts as security if one defaults on the loan.
What is diversification?
Diversification involves putting components together to lesson risk.
What are forwards traded on?
Forwards are traded OTC (over the counter).
What are futures traded on?
Futures are traded on exchange.
What is open interest?
Open interest is the number of contracts in existence.
What is cross-hedging?
In cross-hedging, the asset to be hedged is different than the hedge vehicle.
What is basis risk?
Basis risk is the risk associated with the spread between a spot price and a futures price, and the uncertain movements within said spread.
What is the basis?
The basis is the difference between the spot price and the futures price.
When will a long spot-short futures position profit?
It will profit when the basis narrows.
If the risk-free rate is larger than the dividend yield, will the futures price be higher or lower on longer-maturity contracts?
The futures price will be higher on longer-maturity contracts.
What occurs in late trading?
Mutual fund traders would allow people to trade after the close but at the close price.
Why are mutual funds limited as to what they can buy?
Mutual funds are regulated by the SEC.
What do informed traders know?
Informed traders know something that the market does not.
Why do liquidity traders trade?
Liquidity traders trade for their own personal reasons, whether it be to invest or realize gains.
Who are noise traders?
Noise traders are traders that think they are informed but in reality they no nothing more about the market than anyone else.
How can market makers make more money?
To make more money, market makers must get noise traders to trade more by making them think they are more informed.
Who do market makers always lose to?
Market makers always lose to informed traders.
What do open-end funds always trade for?
Open-end funds always trade for net asset value.
What are closed-end funds generally traded for?
Closed-end funds generally trade for a discount.
What are debt securities?
A fixed stream of income.
How does the free market dictate how a consumer behaves?
Free markets take information and then change prices.
What is a block transaction?
An order/trade submitted for the sale or purchase of a large quantity of securities (10,000 shares of stock).
What is consolidated tape (CT)?
Electronic program that provides continuous, real-time data on trading volume and price for exchange-traded securities.
What is short selling?
Sales of securities you don't own, but have borrowed from your broker.
What is an alternative to shorting?
If you don't want to short (or your brokerage doesn't allow), you can buy an inverse exchange traded fund.
What is a limit order book?
A collection of limit orders waiting to be executed.
How do you enter a limit order?
Specify the highest/lowest price at which you will buy/sell.
How does a limit order work?
With a limit order, you are guaranteed the price at which you will buy or sell - you are NOT guaranteed that you will actually trade.
What is a stop order?
The trade is not to be executed unless the stock hits a price limit.
If you buy at a price below the limit what are you implementing?
Limit-buy order.
If you buy at a price above the limit what are you implementing?
Stop-buy order.
If you sell at a price below the limit what are you implementing?
Stop-loss order.
If you sell at a price above the limit what are you implementing?
Limit-sell order.
When do open end funds trade?
Traded at net asset value.
What are closed end funds?
Bought and sold with other investors. They are generally traded for a discount. Most are actively managed.
What are a few characteristics of actively managed funds?
Generally cost more money and they underperform the market.
What is load?
Effectively reduces the amount of money invested.
What is Front-End Load?
When you buy, you pay the money. You need to beat the % with your return % in order to breakeven.
What is Back-End Load?
A redemption or "exit" fee when you sell your shares. "Contingent deferred sales charges."
What is late trading?
Unethical practice of a hedge fund purchasing and then selling securities after the close of a trading day, but making the transactions appear as though they occurred before the market close.
What are some characteristics of exchange-traded funds?
Open end funds. Passively managed. Low fees. Traded throughout the day (similar to stock). Cheaper than mutual funds.
What are some characteristics of hedge funds?
Alternative investments using pooled funds. Aggressively managed. Low correlations with traditional portfolio of stocks and bonds. No rules in what they can invest in.
What is a call option?
The owner has the right to buy an asset at a fixed/set price on (or before) expiration.
What is a put option?
The writer has the obligation to sell an asset at a fixed/set price on (or before) expiration.
If there is a higher dividend, what happens to the call price?
Higher call price.
What is the strike price?
The price at which a specific derivative contract can be exercised.
The intrinsic formula is?
I= max(s-x,0).
I > 0?
"In the money."
S = X?
"At the money."
I = 0?
"Out of the money."
What is an example of a collaterized loan?
Mortgage.
What is a protective put?
A risk-management strategy that investors can use to guard against the loss of unrealized gains.
The more out of the money you are, what happens to the volatility?
Increased volatility.
What is Monte Carlo used for?
Used to model the probability of different outcomes in a process that cannon easily be predicted due to the intervention of random variables. 
What is a speculator?
A person who trades derivatives, commodities, bonds, equities, or currencies with a higher than average risk in return for a higher-than-average profit potential. Very important to the market. 
What is the result if a crack spread is positive?
The price of the refined products is higher than of crude oil, the raw material and spread is profitable. 
If stock has a high beta, what happens to the stock price?
The stock price decreases. 
What is margin?
The portion of the purchase price contributed by the investor (the remainder is borrowed from the broker).
How is a straddle established?
Buying a call and a put on a stock. Each need to have the same exercise price and the same expiration date. 
What are straddles useful for?
Investors who believe that a stock will move a lot in price, but are unsure of the direction of the move. 
What is consumption timing?
Financial markets allow individuals to separate decisions concerning current consumption from constraints that otherwise would be imposed by current earnings. 
What does allocation of risk allow you to do?
Allows you to take as much risk as you want.
What does financial engineering consist of?
The use of mathematical models and computer-based trading technology to synthesize new financial products. 
Why would you use a protective put versus a stop-loss?
Protective puts are guaranteed where a stop-loss is not.
When implementing a covered call what will always be the same (but mean different things)?
Breakeven and maximum loss will always be the same. 
What two options have the same profit structure?
Buy call and Collar. 
For a straddle option when will maximum loss occur?
Maximum loss will occur when the price of the underlying equals the strike price of long call/put.
What is the delta for a put option?
The delta for a put option is always negative.
What is an informed trader?
An informed traded is someone who knows something about the market that the market does not yet know.
What is a noise trader?
Someone who thinks they are an informed trader but really do not know anything that the market does not already know.
What is a market maker?
A market participant who must post bids and ask prices in the market.
Why does the market maker try and create noisemakers?
The market maker is able to make the most money off of noise traders
what is a liquidity trader?
Someone who invests fixed amount money into the market every month.
Why are their hedge funds?
'Hedge funds create uncorrelated investments so if the stock market crashes 
the investors will not lose all of their money.
What is a Repo?
An agreement to buy a treasury with the agreement to resell that treasury back to the original seller. 
What is a call option?
The owner has the right to buy an asset at a set price on or before the expiration date.
What is a put option?
The owner has the right to sell an asset at the set price on or before the expiration date.
What increments can option contracts be bought in?
100 underlying shares.
Should convertible bonds yield be higher or lower than a straight bond?
Lower
What is a convertible bond?
A bond that can be changed into stock at a pre determined value.
Would you express an American call before expiration?
No
What option spread do we use to limit loses and protect the stock we own?
We create a protective put.
The stock with the highest what has the most effects in the market?
Price.
What determines the size of the company?
The market cap
What is the ask?
The price the stock is sold to you
what is the bid?
The price that the market maker buys the stock.
What is the spread?
The difference between the ask and the bid.
What is the danger of using a market order to buy a large amount of stock?
Only so many shares are offered at certain prices causing you to pay a higher 
premium for large numbers of shares.
Does the market give or take liquidity?
Take
Can informed traders beat the market maker?
Yes.
What is opened ended funds?
Trade for net asset value.
What is closed end funds?
Buying and selling assets with other investors
Black Scholes was created in what market?
European markets
Why can't an American option premium be less than the option intrinsic value?
It is an arbitrage.
Do stop losses guarantee limited losses
No
What is a warrant?
Like a call option but issued from a company.
What is an IPO?
Initial public offering. When a company offers stock for the first time.
Why do we use derivative structures?
To manage risk 
If the FED wants to increase the money supply do they buy or sell treasuries?
Sell 
If the tax rate is lowered what happens to the ability of municipalities to finance debt?
It becomes harder form them because it now requires a higher yield.
Will leverage decrease the value of debt in the books?
Yes 
If the discount rate goes up, what happens to the value of the bond?
It goes down.
Is duration a measure of time?
No, it measures the bonds interest rate risk
If the coupon rate in a bind decreases what happens to the duration?
It will go up. 
Can you create a CDO without buying actual securities?
Yes
what does the FED do?
Control interest rates and money supply, Regulations, and economic reporting
What is short selling a stock?
When you bet against the stock, making money when it goes down.
What do margins do to the gains and losses of a stock
A margin magnifies gains and losses of a stock.
What is a bank rate?
It is the rate charged by the central bank for lending funds to commercial banks.
What is a balloon mortgage?
A balloon mortgage is a financing mechanism where he payments are not fully amortized over the term of the loan. 
What is the bid-ask spread?
The bid-ask spread is typically the difference between ask price and bid price of a security.
What is a call option?
It is the option to buy assets at a set price on or before a particular date.
What are debt securities?
A promise to repay a certain at a certain amount.
What does a security analysis involve?
The valuation of particular securities that might be included in the portfolio.
What is a warrant?
An option issued by the firm to purchase shares of firm's stock.
What is volatility risk?
The risk in the value of options portfolios due to unpredictable changes in the volatility of the underlying asset.
What is a straddle?
A combination of buying both a call and a put on the same asset, each with the same exercise price and expiration date.
What is the purpose of a straddle?
To profit from expected volatility.
What is a futures spread?
Taking a long position in a futures contract of one maturity and a short position in a contract of different maturity, both on the same commodity.
What is a risk-free rate?
The interest rate that can be earned with certainty
What is the real interest rate?
It is the growth rate of purchasing power derived from an investment, and can be found by the excess of the interest rate over the inflation rate.
What is a put option?
The right to sell an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date.
What is par value?
The face value of a bond.
What is a market model?
A market model is another version of the index model that breaks down return uncertainty into systematic and nonsystematic components.
What is a limit order?
An order specifying a price at which an investor is willing to buy or sell a security.
What does it mean when an option is at the money?
It is when the exercise price and asset price of an option are equal.
What does it mean when an option is in the money?
It means the option's exercise would produce profits.
What is a binomial model?
An option-valuation model predicated on the assumption that stock prices can move to only two values over any short time period.
What is collateralized mortgage obligation?
A mortgage pass-through security that partitions cash flows from underlying mortgages into classes called tranches that receive principal payments according to stipulated rules.
What is cross hedging?
It is hedging a position in one asset using futures on another commodity.
What is duration?
A measure of the average life of a bond, defined as the weighted average of the times until each payment is made, with weights proportional to the present value of the payment.
What is an annuity?
A series of fixed payments of the same amount paid at regular intervals. 
What is depreciation?
Depreciation is a decline in value or price.
What is fair market value?
It is the amount at which would prompt a willing seller to sell and a willing buyer to buy property. 
What is fiscal year?
It is a period of 12 months, ending on the last day of a month other than December. 
Who can have an incentive stock option?
An incentive stock option is a statutory employee stock option; meaning it is for an employee of a company. 
What is APR?
APR stands for annual percentage rate and is the percentage cost of credit on an annual basis and the total cost of credit to the consumer.
What is an arbitrage?
The simultaneous purchase and sale of a good in order to profit from a difference in price.
What are bank reserves?
The amount of deposits not loaned out by banks.
What is a CD?
A CD or certificate of deposit, is a savings alternative that allows money to be left on deposit for a stated period of time to earn a specific interest rate.
What is compound interest?
It's interest computed on the sum of the original principal and accrued interest.
What is the discount rate?
The interest rate charged by the Federal Reserve to banks for loans obtained through the Fed's discount window.
What allows for reduced risk when investing?
Diversification 
What does FDIC stand for?
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. 
What is fiat money?
An item that is used as money but has no intrinsic value.
What is flat tax?
A tax in which all levels of income are taxed at the same rate.
What is gross domestic product or GDP?
It is the total market value of all final goods and services produced in an economy in a given year.
What does NASDAQ stand for and what does it do?
It stands for the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations System and it's a stock exchange where trades are made electronically. 
What are U.S. Treasury securities?
They can be in the form of bonds, notes, and other debt instruments and are sold by the U.S. Treasury to finance United States government operations.
What is beta?
Beta is a measurement of risk.
What is a way to reduce risk in a portfolio?
Diversification.
What is financial engineering?
Financial engineering is a way of manipulating combinations of bonds and stocks to get a desired return.
How many times is a corporation taxed?
A corporation is taxed twice.
Where does a market order take liquidity from?
A market order takes liquidity from the market.
What is an informed trader?
A trader who knows something before the rest of the market.
What is a liquidity trader?
A trader who trades for their own reasons, like saving for retirement.
What is the person called who sells options?
A writer.
What is a callable bond?
A callable bond is a bond that the company can buy back.
What is a warrant?
A warrant is like a call, but it is issued from the company.
What is a convertable bond?
A bond that has the option to be converted into stock. 
What is an example of a collaterized loan?
An example of a collaterized loan is a mortgage.
What is Monte Carlo used for?
Monte Carlo is used to model the probability of different outcomes.
What are examples of financial assets?
Stocks and bonds are two examples of financial assets.
What is common stock?
Common stock, or equity, represents ownership in a company.
What do investment bankers do?
They advise corporations on the prices it can charge for securities it issues. 
What is the primary market?
The primary market is where new securities are usually issued to the public.
What is the secondary market?
The secondary market is where investors can trade previously issued securities.
What does securitization of mortgages mean?
It means that mortgages can be traded like securities.
What are pass-through securities?
Pass-through securities are securities that take individual home mortgages and put them in a homogeneous pool.
What is the ask price?
The ask price is the price you would have to pay to buy the security.
What is the bid price?
The bid price is the price you would receive if you sell the bid.
What is the bid-asked spread?
The bid-asked spread is the differences between the bid and asked prices.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond denominated in currency other than the countries currency it originated from.
What does residual claim mean?
A residual claim means stockholders are the last people to have a claim on the corporations assets.
What is an example of a stock exchange?
The New York Stock Exchange.
What is an underwriter?
A person who markets public offerings of stocks and bonds.
What is an IPO.
An IPO, or initial public offering, is when a firm that was private decides to sell stock publicly for the first time.
What is an auction market?
An auction market is where all traders converge to buy or sell securities.
What is a direct market search?
When the buyer and seller have to seek each other out directly.
What is a limit order book?
A limit order book is a collection of all limit orders waiting to be executed.
What is a stop order?
A stop order is when a trade is not to be executed until the stock hits a price limit.
What is a short sale?
A short sale is when an investor borrows stock from a broker and sells it, repaying them later.
Is it illegal to trade on privately held information?
Yes, it is illegal.
What is privately held information?
Information held by people inside of the company that has not been given to the public.
What is a load?
A load is a sales charge that is paid to the seller.
What do international funds invest in?
They invest in securities of firms located outside of the United States.
What is a back-end load?
A back-end load is an exit fee incurred when you sell your shares.
What is a front-end load?
A front-end load is a sales charge paid when you buy the shares.
When do mutual funds calculate net asset value?
At the end of each trading day.
What happens to the profits of call options when the stock price increases?
Profits of call options will increase
What happens to the profits of put options when the stock price increases?
Profits of put options will decrease
How many shares of stock are normally provided in each stock option contract?
100 shares
When should a call option be exercised?
When the strike price is less than the stock price
When should a put option be exercised?
When the strike price is greater than the stock price
Is Black-Scholes based off of American Options or European Options?
European Options
What would be the gain or loss on a call option with a stock price of $100, a strike price of $110, and you paid $3 for the option?
Loss of $3
Due to the extra risk in callable bonds compared to straight bonds, would coupon rates be higher or lower for callable bonds?
Callable bonds have a higher coupon rate compared to a straight bond
What kind of bonds must be used in Put-Call Parity?
Zero Coupon Bonds
Which type of exotic option has payoffs that depend on the average price of the underlying assets during the option's life span?
Asian Options
Which type of exotic option's payoffs depend on minimum and maximum prices of underlying assets during the option's life span?
Lookback Options
What are the three components that make up a complete market?
Bonds, Calls, and Stocks
According to complete markets, if there is a portfolio that is made up of a bond and stock together, then what can be replicated from that portfolio? 
A call option can be replicated
If debt matures in less than one year, what type of security would this be?
Capital Market Security
If debt matures in more than one year, what type of security would this be?
Money Market Security
Is the Security Market Line based off of systematic risk or unsystematic risk?
Systematic Risk
If beta equals zero, what will the expected rate of return be?
The Risk Free Rate
If Beta equals one, what will the expected rate of return be?
The Market Rate of Return
What are the four types of real options?
Expand, Contract, Delay, and Shut Down
If beta coefficients are higher, will there be a higher or lower expected return on the stock?
Higher expected return on the stock
What should the Net Present Value (NPV) equal when using the Internal Rate of Return (IRR)?
NPV should equal zero
If the Net Present Value (NPV) is greater than zero, should the firm accept the project?
Yes, if the NPV is greater than zero then the firm should accept the project
If the Net Present Value (NPV) is less than zero, should the firm accept the project?
No, if the NPV is less than zero then the firm should reject the project
What are the underlying variables of Black-Scholes?
Stock Price, Volatility, Risk-Free Rate and Time
What is the value range for call Deltas?
Call Deltas range from zero to one
What is the value range for put Deltas?
Put Deltas range from negative one to zero
Why is the greek, Theta, usually negative?
Theta is usually negative because as time passes the option's premium declines (all other variables held constant)
How do you calculate an option's time value?
An option's time value is the option's premium less its intrinsic value
What does it mean when option contracts traded on US Exchanges are cleared?
When option contracts are cleared, you do not have to worry about counterparty risk
Who regulates stock markets?
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulates stock markets
Which greek is known as the option's time decay?
Theta
What happens to transaction costs when bid/ask spread get larger?
The larger the bid/ask spread, the larger the transaction costs
Who maintains the bids and offers in an orderbook?
The market maker
What happens to the value of a call option when a dividend is paid?
Paying dividends will decrease the value of call options
What happens to the value of a put option when a dividend is paid?
Paying dividends will increase the value of put options
When can an American Option be exercised?
American options may be exercised at or before expiration
When can an European Option be exercised?
European Options can only be exercised at expiration
Are out-of-the-money options sensitive to changes in underlying stock?
No, out-of-the-money options are not sensitive to changes in the underlying stock prices
Are in-the-money options sensitive to changes in underlying stock?
Yes, in-the-money options are sensitive to changes in underlying stock prices
How many national securities exchanges are currently registered with the SEC?
There are 18 national securities exchanges registered with the SEC
What are Treasury bills?
Short-term, highly liquid government securities issued at a discount from the face value and returning the face amount at maturity. T-Bills are less than a year. 
What are Treasury notes?
Treasury Notes are a year to ten years.
What are Treasury Bonds?
Treasury Bonds are greater than ten years. 
What is passive portfolio?
A market index portfolio.
What is passive management?
Buying a well-diversified portfolio to represent a broad-based market index without attempting to search out mispriced securities. 
What is active management?
Attempts to achieve portfolio returns more than commensurate with risk, either by forecasting broad market trends or b identifying particular mispriced sectors of a market or securities in a market.
What are American Depository Receipts?
Are domestically traded securities that represent claims to shares of foreign stocks.
Exchange-traded funds are a variation on what?
American depository receipts
What is the bid-ask spread?
Is the difference in the bid price and the ask price.
What is a Eurobond?
Is a bond denominated in a currency other than that of the country in which it is issued?
Who are Municipal bonds issued by?
State and local governments.
What is the Price-earnings ratio?
Is the ratio of the current stock price to last year's earnings per share. 
What is a call option for the holder?
Gives the holder the right to purchase an asset for a specified strike price on or before some specified expiration date. 
What is a call option for the writer?
Gives the owner the right to sell an asset for a specified strike price on or before some specified expiration date.
What is a put option for the holder?
Gives the holder the right to sell an asset for a specified exercise or strike price on or before a specified expiration date.
What is a put option for the writer?
Gives the writer the option to buy an asset for a specified exercise or strike price on or before a specified expiration date.
Dealing with call options, when the asset price is greater than the exercise price, is it in the money or out of the money?
In the money
Dealing with call options, when the asset price is less than the exercise price, is it in the money or out of the money?
Out of the money
When the exercise price and asset price are equal, is it in the money or at the money?
At the money
What is a covered call?
Is the purchase of a share of stock with a simultaneous sale of a call on that stock.
What is a collar?
An options strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds. 
Nondiversifiable risk is what type of risk?
Systematic risk
An agreement calling for future delivery of an asset at an agreed-upon price is what type of contract.
Forward contract
What are digital options?
They have fixed payoffs that depend on whether a condition is satisfied by the price of the underlying asset.
What are lookback options?
They have payoffs that depend in part on the minimum or maximum price of the underlying asset during the life of the option.
What are Asian options?
Are options with payoffs that depend on the average price of the underlying asset during at least some portion of the life of the option. 
What are Barrier options?
Barrier options have payoffs that depend not only on some asset price at option expiration, but also on whether the underlying asset price has crossed through some barrier. 
When is a call option out of the money?
When the stock price is below the exercise price?
What is binomial?
The probability of each outcome is described by the binomial distribution.
What is the pseudo-American call option value?
Is the maximum of the value derived by assuming that the option will be held until expiration and the value derived by assuming that the option will be exercised just before an ex-dividend date. 
What is the delta formula?
Change in the value of an option divided by the change in the value of the stock
What are market orders?
These are orders that you buy or sell that are to be executed immediately at the current market place. 
What are stocks that are issued by a formerly privately owned company that is going public, that is, selling stock to the public for the first time. 
Initial public offerings
What is front-end load?
Is a commission or sales charge paid when you purchase the shares. These charges, which are used primarily to pay the brokers who sell the funds, may not exceed 8.5% buy in practice they are rarely higher than 6%> 
What is back-end load?
Is a redemption or exit, feed incurred when you sell your shares. These starts at 5% or 6% and reduce them by 1 percentage point for every year the funds are left invested.
What are zero coupon bonds?
Bonds that pay no coupons that sells at a discount and provides payment of face value only at maturity. 
What does writing a call mean?
Selling a call option
What type of ratio is a ratio of put options to call options outstanding on a stock?
Put/call ratio
What is a straight bond value?
Is the value the bond would have if it were not convertible into stock. 
What are warrants?
Are call options that are issued by a firm. 
What is the difference between calls and warrants?
Is that the exercise of a warrant requires the firm to issue a new share of stock, which the total number of shares outstanding will increase. 
What are real assets?
Real assets are physical assets like commodities, land, precious metals, and oil that have value because of their substance and properties.
What are financial assets?
Financial assets are claims on real assets.
What are derivatives?
A security that derives its value on an underlying security or event. 
What is an efficient market?
A market where prices change rapidly and accurately when new information is provided.
What is inflation?
A decrease in the purchasing power of the dollar.
What is securitization?
The bundling of contractual debt obligations into securities that are sold to third party investor.
Do investors buy securities at the bid or the ask?
The ask
What type of order provides liquidity?
Limit orders provide liquidity.
What type of order decreases liquidity?
Market orders reduce liquidity.
According to Walter Bagehot what are the three types of traders?
The three types of traders are informed traders, liquidity traders, and noise traders.
What type of traders always makes a profit?
Informed traders
What type of traders always loses money?
Noise traders
Are hedge funds regulated by the SEC?
No
What are fiduciary obligated to do?
They legally must do whatever is in the best interest of their investors.
What is a call option?
An option that gives the owner the right to buy a security at a fixed price on or before the specified date.
What is a put option?
An option that gives the owner the right to sell something at a set price on or before the specified date.
What is the difference between American and European options?
American options can be exercised at any time before the expiration date.  European options can only be exercised on the expiration date.
Can the owner of the option choose not to exercise it?
Yes
What is the equation used to determine the intrinsic value of a call?
Intrinsic Value= Max (stock price ' strike price, 0)
What is the equation used to determine the intrinsic value of a put?
Intrinsic Value= Max (strike price ' stock price, 0)
When is an option considered to be 'in the money'?
When the option's intrinsic value is greater than 0.
How do you create a covered call option spread?
Sell a call option for a stock that you already own with a strike price that greater than the current stock price.
How would you create a protective put option spread?
Buy a put option for a stock that you already own with a strike price that is less than the current value of the stock.
How would you create a bull call option spread?
Buy 1 call option and sell 1 call option.  The call that you purchase should have a strike price that is less that the strike of the call that you bought. 
In what ways is a bull call spread better than a collar spread?
It requires fewer trades than a collar does, which decreases the amount you pay in commissions. 
What is a futures contract?
A standardized forward contract that is traded on an exchange.
What is a forward contract?
A contract between two parties to exchange something for a set price on a specific date. 
What is the role of speculators in the futures market?
They ensure that companies who wish to sell futures have someone to trade with.
What industry is the spark spread used in?
The Utility Industry
If inflation in the United States increases how does it affect the current account?
It causes the current account to decrease.
What does the World Bank do?
Provides loans to developing countries if they agree to implement the policies that the World Bank recommends.
What is the agency problem?
The agent (CEO) does things that 
What did the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 do?
Increased the financial disclosure and accounting regulations that corporations must.
What is an annuity?
A series of cash flows that begin and end. 
What is a perpetuity?
A series of cash flows that don't have an ending.
What is an indenture?
Secured debt that is backed by an asset that can be seized if the loan defaults. 
What is a debenture?
Unsecured debt
What is systematic risk?
Risk that is inherent to the market and is undiversifiable.
What is unsystematic risk?
Diversifiable risk that is specific to a company or industry.
What is short selling?
Selling a security that you do not own based on the belief that the price of the stock will decline.
What is the bid-ask spread?
The difference between the asked price and the bid price,in which is the dealers source of profit.
What is a REPO?
A REPO is a short-term sales of government sucurites with the agreement to repurchase.
What is a reverse REPO?
A purchase with an agreement to resell at a specified price on a future date.
What is the asked price?
The price the buyer would pary for a securitty.
What is the bid price?
The price the seller would recieve if they were to sell the security to a dealer. It is lower than the asked price.
What is a mortgage backed security?
An ownership claim in a pool of mortgages or an obligation that is secured. 
What are the charachteristics of common stock?
Two of the most important charachteristics of common stock are the residual claim on earnings and the limited liability features.
What is a residual claim?
A residual claim is a claim on what is left over after all other claim's have been paid after all other claimants such as tax authorities, employees, suppliers, bondholders, and other creditors have been paid. 
What is the price-earnings ratio?
The price-earnings ratio is the ratio of the current stock price to last year's earnings per share. 
What does the price-earnings ratio measure?
The price-earnings ratio measures the amount of stock purchasers must pay per dollar of earnings that is generated by the firm. 
What is a futures contract?
A futures contract is a contract in which the traders purchase or sel an asset at an agreed upon price at a specified future date. 
What is an IPO?
An IPO is an initial public offering are stocks issued to the public for the first time. The stocks are issued by a formerly private company that is going public. 
What is the primary market?
The primary market is where new issues of stock are offered to the public.
What is the secondary market?
The secondary market is where already existing securities are bought and sold on the exchanges or over the counter markets.
What kind of markets exist?
Brokered markets, direct search markets, dealer markets, and auction markets.
What is a direct search market?
A direct search market is the least organized market where buyers and sellers must find eachother directly.
What is a brokered market?
A brokered market is a market where trading is active and there is profitabile for dealers to offer eachother services.
What is a dealer market?
A dealer market is a specialized market. In a dealer market, dealers specialize in various assets, purchase these assets for their own accounts, and sell them later for a profit.
What is an auction market?
An auction market is the most integrated market in which all traders convrege in one place. 
What are the types of orders?
Market orders and orders contingent on price are the two main types of orders. 
What is a market order?
A market order is a buy or sell order to be executed immediately.
What is a price-contingent order?
A price-contingent order is an order that specifies prices at which an investor is willing to buy or sell.
What are the types of price-contingent orders?
The two types are limit orders and stop orders.
What is a limit order? 
A limit buy order instructs the broker to buy a set number of shares if and when the IBM is obtainable at or below a given price. A limit sell order instructs the broker to sell if and when the stock price rises above a certain limit.
What is a stop order?
A stop-loss order instructs that the stock is sold if the orice falls below a stipulated price. A Stop-buy order specifies that a stock should be bought when it rises above a set price. 
What is a collection of limit orders waiting to be executed?
A limit book order.
How many securities are traded over-the-counter?
Approximately 35,000
What is the largest stock exchange in the United States?
The New York Stock Exchange.
What is inside information?
Inside information is private information held by officers, directors, or major stockholders that has not been released to the public.
What is an open-ended fund?
A fund that stands ready to redeem or issue shares at their net asset value.
What is a closed-end fund?
A fund that does not redeem or issue shares.
What is market risk?
Market risk is the risk that remains after the protfolio has been diversified fully. Also known as the risk in the market. 
What is systematic risk?
Systematic risk is also known as nondiversifiable risk because the risk can be eliminated through diversification. 
What is the liquidity premium?
The liquidity premium is the difference between the forward rate and the expected futre interest rate.
What is a call option?
A call option is the right to buy an asset at an exercise price at or before expiration.
What is a put option?
A put option is the right to sell an asset at an exercise price at or before expiration. 
What is a covered call?
A covered call is a position in the purchase of a share of stock with the sale of a call on that stock.
What is a protective put?
A protective put is  the purchase of stock combined with a put options that guaruntees the minimum proceeds equal to the put's exercise price. 
What is a spread?
A spread is a combination of two or more call options (or two or more puts) on the same stock eith differing exercise priced or times to maturity. 
What are some kinds of spreads?
Covered call, protective put, collars, bull calls, butterfly
What are financial asset?
Claims on real assets
What are debt securities?
A promised, fixed amount
What are equity securities?
A residual claim, leftover
What are derivative securities?
A contingent claim, derive value from something else
What are the maturities of Treasury Bills?
T-Bills are < 1 year
What are the maturities of notes?
Notes are 1-10 years
What are the maturities of bonds?
Bonds are > 10 years
A debenture is ______ while an indenture is ______.
Unsecured debt, secured debt
What is the base number of shares needed for a block transaction?
10,000 or greater
Selling is also referred to as a _____ position.
Short
Buying is also referred to as a _____ position.
Long
What are informed traders?
know something that others do not
What are liquidity traders?
trade for their own reasons
What are noise traders?
think they are informed about information others do not know but they actually do not
What does the market maker do?
posts bids and asks in the market
What are open end funds?
always trade at the net asset value
What are closed end funds?
buying and selling with other investors
What is securitization?
bundling of securities to minimize risk
What is financial engineering?
replicating securities with specific characteristics
What is a limit order?
specifies a price at which an investor is willing to buy or sell a security
What is a stop order?
trades are not executed unless the security reaches a certain price
What is a stop-loss order?
stock sold if the price falls below a certain level
What is a call option?
owner has a right to buy the underlying asset at a set price on or before expiration, writer obligation to sell
What is a put option?
owner has a right to sell the underlying asset, writer obligation to buy
What is a covered call?
Buy stock, sell call
What is a collar?
Buy stock, sell call, buy put
What is a bull call?
Buy call, sell call
What is a bear call?
Sell call, buy call
What is a straddle?
Buy call, buy put
What is a butterfly?
Buy 1 call, sell 2 call, buy 1 call
What is a put-call parity?
shows the relationship between put and call prices
What is a callable bond?
straight bond with company's right to buy it back
What is a convertible bond?
Bond with right to convert to shares of stock
What is a warrant?
call option issued by a firm that increases the number of shares outstanding
What is the spread under portfolio insurance?
Protective put
How are forwards traded?
Over the counter
How are futures traded? 
On an exchange
What is an example of a collateralized loan?
Mortgage
How does submitting a market order affect liquidity?
Decreases 
What are futures markets used for?
hedging and diversifying
What is an arbitrage
A zero-risk, zero net investment strategy that still generates profit
What is the asked price
The price at which a dealer will sell a security
When is an option at the money
When the excercise price and asset price of an option are equal
What is the bid price
The price at which a dealer is willing to purchase a security
What is the bid ask spread
The difference between a dealer's bid and asked price
What are the inputs of Black Scholes
Stock price, excercise price, risk free rate, time to maturity, and volatility
How many shares are in a block sale
Ten thousand or more
What is a callable bond
A bond that the issuer may repurchase at a given price in some specified period
What is a call option
The right to buy an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date
What is commercial paper
Short term unsecured debt issued by large corporations
What is contengo
Future prices must exceed the expected future spot price
What makes up a covered call
Combination of selling a call on a stock together with buying the stock
What is a derivative
A security providing payoffs that depend on or are contingent on the values of other assets
What is a discount bond
A bond selling below par value
What is diversification
Spreading a portfolio over many investments to avoid excessive exposure to any one source of risk
What is the difference between an American option and an European option
A Europena option can be excercised only on the expiration date and American can be excercised anytime up to expiration
What is the exercise/strike price
Price set for buying an asset or selling an asset
What is a forward contract
An agreement calling for future delivery ofan asset at an agreed-upon price
What is a futures price
The price at which a futures trader commits to make or take delivery of the underlying asset
Is a hedge fund exempt from SEC regulation
Yes
Why do investors hedge
To reduce the overall risk of a portfolio
What is implied volatility
The standard deviation of stock returns that is consistent with an option's market value
What is inside information
Nonpublic knowledge about a corporation
What is the intrinsic value of an option
Stock price minus the excercise price
What is a limit order
An order specifiying a price at which an investor is willing to buy or sell a security
What does LIBOR stand for
ndon Interbank Offered Rate
What is a market order
A buy or sell order to be executed immediately at current market prices
When is an option out of the money
When the strike price of a call option is higher than the underlying asset
What makes up a protective put
The purchase of a stock combined with a put option
What is a put option
The right to sell an asset at a specified excercise price on or before a specified expiration date
What is a specialist
A trade who makes a market in the shares of one or more firms, maintains a fair and orderly market
What is a warrant
An option issued by the firm to purchase shares of the firm's stock
What makes a market efficient
The ability to quickly and accurately adjust prices
A value rated stock index is most affected by
A stock with the highest value
What are the three types of traders
Informed, liquidity, and noise
What makes up a straddle
Buy a call and buy put
What happens to delta as a put goes out of the money
Delta moves toward zero
What does gamma measure
How fast delta moves
What is a difference between a forward and future
Forwards are not traded on an exchange and futures are
What is cross hedging
Finding an asset that behaves similarly to what you want to hedge
The right to buy an asset at a specific exercise price on or before a specific expiration date is the definition of what?
Call Option
A bond that the issuer may repurchase at a given price in some specific period is the definition of what?
Callable Bond 
An options strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bonds is defined as what?
Collar
What is a price set for calling an asset or putting an asset called?
Exercise or strike price
What is it called when you invest in an asset to reduce the overall risk in a portfolio?
Hedging
The purchase price of an option is also referred to as'?
Premium
The right to sell an asset at a specific exercise price on or before a specific expiration date is referred to as..?
A put option
An equation that represents a relationship between the price of a call and a put is defined as what?
Put-call parity theorem
The sale of shares not owned by the investor but borrowed through a broker and later repurchased to replace the loan is referred to as what?
A short sale
What is it called when there is a combination of buying both call and put on the same asset, with the price of the call and put being equal?
Straddle
How many options are typically in an option contract? 
100
The minimum amount of equity that has to be maintained in a margin account is called what?
Maintenance Margin
Define a market order:
Buy/sell now; buy immediately at the best price possible
Define a limit order:
Sell at the highest price is selling, buy at the lowest price if buying
What is the purpose of a stop order?
To limit losses
Which type of order takes liquidity from the market?
Market Order
Which type of order provides liquidity in the market?
Limit order
When dealing with Treasury Bills, how can you tell the difference between a treasury note and a treasury bond?
Treasury notes are less than a year, Treasury bonds are more than 10 years
In essence, what does a residual claim mean when purchasing stock?
Stock holder gets paid whatever money is leftover after company pays debts.
What is it called when you trade in other securities in order to create cash flows?
Financial engineering 
What does it mean if a market is deemed efficient?
The market quickly and accurately incorporates new information to reflect on the price data.
Calculate a covered call when the buy a stock for $150, and sell a call for $160 with a strike price of $2.
$12 & Breakeven = $148
Which region uses the Black-Scholes Pricing Model for their market?
Europe
What is an option-valuation model that uses predictions based on assumptions that stock prices can only move up to two values in any short period of time?
Binomial model
When an exercise price and option price of an asset are equal it is called?
At the money
What is a no risk, no net investment strategy that will still generate profits called?
Arbitrage
Define contango theory:
Future prices must exceed the predicted and expected future spot price
What type of spread occurs when one option is bought, so you write another option for a different expiration date?
Calendar Spread
Bonds selling at below par value are referred to as what?
A.	Discount bonds
When discussing bonds, what does it mean when it presents a face value?
Face value is the maturity of a bond
What is the name of a strategy that matches durations of assets and liabilities so as to make net worth unaffected by interest rate movements?
Immunization
What does liquidity refer to?
The speed and ease that an asset can be converted into cash
What is an order that specifies a price at which an investor is willing to buy or sell a security?
A limit order
Is stock exchanges part of the primary or secondary markets?
Secondary market
An order to trade contingent on the security price designed to limit losses if the price were to move against the trader is what kind of order?
Stop order
What is a combination of two or more options or two or more puts on the same stock with different exercise prices or different time to maturity called?
Spread
What are call options called that are issued by a firm itself?
Warrants
What is a collateralized loan?
A loan that is backed up by assets that will be taken in the event of default on the loan
The term for an annualized interest rate on a security that is computed by using compound interest techniques is'?
Effective annual yield 
The measure of the welfare or satisfaction of an investor is referred to as..?
Utility
Why are many market securities sometimes referred to as "cash equivalents"?
The prrices of money market securities are very stable and they can be converted into cash on very short notice and with low transaction costs
How do you define a call option?
A call option is the right to buy an asset at an agreed-upon exercise price
A firm's preferred stock often sells at yields below its bonds because
Corporations owning stock may exclude from income taxes most of the dividend income they receive
How do you define a put option?
A put option is the right to sell an asset at a given exercise price
Which is the most risky transaction to undertake in the stock index option markets if the stock market is expected to increase sunstantially after the transaction is completed?
Write a call option
what is a covered call?
A combination of selling a call on a stock together with buying the stock
what is the difference in cash flow between short-selling an asset and entering a short futures position?
Short-selling results in an immediate cash inflow whereas the short futures position does not
What does "in the money" mean?
Describes an option whose exercise price would produce profits
Is a put option on a high-beta stocl worth more that one on a low-beta stock when the stocks have identical firm specific risk?
The value of a put option increases as beta increases
What is a closed-end fund?
A fund whose shares are traded through brokers at market prices; the fund willnot redeem shares at their net asset value
If the stock price falls and the call price rises, then what happened to the call options implied volatitlity?
Implied volatility has increased
How do you define a hedge fund?
A private investment pool, open to institutional or wealthy investors, that is largely exempt from SEC regulation and can pursue more speculative policies than mutual funds
Should the rate of a return of a call option on a long term treasury bond be more or less sensitive to changes in interest rates than is the rate of return of the underlying bond?
More sensitive
What is a dealer market?
A market where traders specializing in particular commodities buy and sell assets for their own accounts
Why would you expect securitization to take place only in highly developed capital markets?
Securitization requires access to a large numbe rof potential investors and the capital market needs a safe system of business laws and low regulation, a well-developed investment banking industry and system of brokerage and finaincial transactions, and a well-developed media
How do you define a stop order?
Order to trade contingent on security price designed to limit losses if price moves against the trader
Why do call options with exercise prices greater than the proce of the underlying stock sell for positive prices?
There is a possibilty that the option will be in the money some time prior to expiration
How do you define derivative assets?
Securites providing payoffs that depend on or are contingent on the values of other assets such as commodity prices, bond and stock prices, or market index values
What is the difference between an informed trader and a liquidity trader?
An informed trader gains every time they trade against the market dealer; a liquidty trader trades for their own benefit
What is a residual claim?
Refers to the fact that shareholders are at the bottom of the list of claimants to assets of a corporation in the event of a failure or bankruptcy
What is one difference between open-end funds and closed-end funds?
Open-end funds investment company is involved, closed-end funds investment company is not involved
How do you define securitzation?
Pooling loans for various purposes into standardized securities  backed by those loans which can be traded like any other security
What is the difference between a fron-end load and a back-end load?
A front-end load there is a fee when you buy the load; a back-end load takes the money when you leave the fund
What is an over-the-counter market?
An informal network of brokers and dealers who negotiate sales of securities
Are index funds actively or passively managed?
Passively managed
What is a cash settlement?
The provision of some futures contracts that requires not delivery of the underlying assets but settlement according to the cash value of the asset
Do exchange-traded funds minimize or maximize fees and taxes?
Minimize
How do you define open interest?
The number of futures contracts outstanding
When is gamma the greatest?
At the money
How do you define the spot-futures parity theorem?
Describes the theoretically correct relationship between spot and future prices; violation of the parity relationship gives rise to arbitrage opportunities
What is one difference between a market order and a limit order?
Market orders take liquidity from the market; limit orders provide liquidity
What is basis risk?
Risk attributable to uncertain movements in the spread between a futures price and a spot price
Does a short position have a positive or negative position in the shares?
Negative
How do you define volatility risk?
The risk in the value of options portfolios due to unpredictable changes in the volatility of the underlying asset
Is a hedge fund correlated or uncorrelated with market returns?
Uncorrelated
What is dynamic hedging?
Constant updating of hedge postions as market conditions change
What are the four important functions of investment companies?
Record keeping and administration, diversification and divisibility, professional management, and lower transaction costs
How do you define the put-call parity theorem?
An equation representing the proper relationship between put and call prices; violation of the parity allows arbitrage opportunities
What is a European option?
A European option can be exercised only on the expiration date
What is an American option?
A American option call can be exercised before and up to its expiration date
What is an arbitrage?
A zero-risk, zero-net investment strategy that still generates profit.
What is an agency problem?
Conflicts of interest among stockholders, bondholders, and managers.
What is the ask price?
The price at which a dealer will sell a security.
What does 'at the money' mean?
The exercise price and asset price of an option are equal.
What is the bid price?
The price at which a dealer is willing to purchase a security.
What does beta measure?
The systematic risk of a security.
How many shares of stock are in a block sale?
More than 10,000.
What is a bond?
A security issued by a borrower that obligates he issuer to make specified payments to the holder over a specified period.
What type of investor is bullish?
optimistic
What type of investor is bearish?
pessimistic'
What is a call option?
The right to buy an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date.
What is a callable bond?
A bond that the issuer may repurchase at a given price in some specified time period.
What is a collar option?
Brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds.
What is collateral?
A specified asset pledged against possible default on a bond.'
What is convexity?
The curvature of the price-yield relationship of a bond.'
What is a bond's current yield?
The annual coupon payment divided by its price.'
What are discount bonds?
Bonds that are selling below par value.
What is diversification?
Spreading a portfolio over many investments to avoid excessive exposure to any one source of risk.
What does the efficient market hypothesis predict?
That the prices of securities fully reflect all available information.
What is equity?
Ownership in a firm.
What is the exchange rate?
Price of a unit of one country's currency in terms of another country's currency.
What is the exercise price of a bond?
Price set for calling an asset or putting an asset.
What is expected return?
The probability-weighted average of the possible outcomes.
What is the face value of the bond?
The price at maturity.
What is the geometric average?
The nth root of the product of n numbers, used to measure the compound rate of return over time.
What is an indenture?
A document defining the contract between the bond issuer and the bondholder.
What is inflation?
The rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services is rising.
What is insider trading?
Trading by officers, managers, etc. who hold private information allowing them to benefit from buying or selling the stock.
What is the intrinsic value of a company?
The present value of a firm's expected future net cash flows discounted by the required rate of return.
What is hedging?
Investing in an asset to reduce the overall risk of a portfolio.
What is inflation?
The rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services is rising.
What is the initial public offering for a company?
Stock that is issued to the public for the first time by a formerly privately owned company.
What is a limit order?
An order specifying a price at which an investor is willing to buy or sell a security.'
What is a margin?
It describes securities purchased with money borrowed from a broker.
What does 'out of the money' mean?
An option where exercise would not be profitable.
What is the par value of a bond?
The same amount as the face value.
What is preferred stock?
Shareholders have a fixed stream of dividends, and no voting rights.
What is a primary market?
Where new issues of securities that are offered to the public.
What are premium bonds?
Bonds that are selling above par.
What is a protective put?
Purchasing of stock combined with a put option that guarantees minimum proceeds equal to the put's exercise price.
What is the Put/Call ratio on stock?
Ratio of put options to call options outstanding on stock.
What is the premium of an option?
The purchase price of the option.
What is a covered call?
Purchase of a share of stock with a simultaneous sale of a call on that stock.
What is a warrant?
Call options issued by a firm
What is the time value of an option?
The difference between the actual call price and the intrinsic value.
What does the S stand for in Black-Scholes?
Current stock price
What does the X stand for in Black- Scholes?
The exercise price
What is a hedge ratio commonly known as?
Delta
What is gross pay?
The total amount of your earnings before deductions are taken out.
What is net pay?
The amount you receive in your paycheck after deductions are taken out.
What is interest?
A fee paid for the opportunity to use someone else's money.
What does it mean to reconcile?
To bring a bank statement and your own record of transactions into agreement.
What is a money market account?
A type of savings account that pays a higher interest rate because financial institution invests the money you deposit.
What is a deductible?
A set amount that the holder of an insurance policy must pay for each loss before the insurance company pays out.
The act of investing is?
Committing money in the hope that it will make money over time.
What is a certificate of deposit (CD)?
An investment in which you deposit money with a financial institution for a specified period and receive an agreed-upon interest rate in return.
What are bonds?
Certificates of a debt; a type of investment.
What is stock?
Ownership interest in a company; a type of investment.
What are mutual funds?
A group of investments held in common by many individual investors.
What is a 401(K) plan?
A type of retirement in which deductions are made from the employee's paycheck.
What does it mean to be at-the-money?
An option whose exercise price is equal to the current market price of the underlying security. An ATM option may or may not have intrinsic value.
What is an automatic exercise?
Procedure used by the options clearing corporation to exercise in-the-money options at expiration. (75 cents or more)
What is a back-spread?
A delta-neutral spread composed of more long options than short options on the same underlying instrument. This position generally profits from a large movement in either direction in the underlying instrument.
What is a bear spread?
A strategy involving two or more options of the same type that will profit from a decline in the underlying stock. Consists of buying an option with a higher strike and selling an option with a lower strike. The maximum risk will be realized if the underlying stock rises in price.
What is the bid price?
The highest price a dealer is willing to pay for a security at a certain time.
What is the black-scholes option pricing model?
The black-scholes option pricing model is used to calculate a theoretical value for an option using current stock prices, expected dividends, the option's strike price, expected interest rates , time to expiration, and expected stock volatility.
What is a box spread?
A four-sided option spread that involves a long call and a short put at one strike price as well as a short call and a long put at another strike price. (buying 1 LMN Jan 50 call, and writing 1 LMN Jan 55 call; simultaneously buying 1 LMN Jan 55 put, and writing 1 Jan 50 put)
What is/are the break-even point(s)?
The stock price(s) at which an option strategy results in neither a profit nor a loss.
What is a broker?
An agent who facilitates trades between a buyer and a seller and receives a commission for services.
How does a bull spread work?
A bull spread is a strategy involving two or more options of the same type (or options combined with an underlying stock position) that will profit from a rise in the price of the underlying stock. Consists or selling an option with a higher strike, and buying an option with a lower strike. The maximum risk will be realized if the underlying stock falls in price.
What is a butterfly spread?
A strategy involving four options of the same type that span three strike prices. The strategy has both limited risk and limited profit potential.
What is a call option?
A contract between a buyer and seller whereby the buyer acquires the right, but not the obligation, to buy a specified underlying instrument at a fixed price on or before a specified date.
What is the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)?
The largest and oldest listed options exchange.
What does a clearinghouse do?
A clearinghouse is a facility that compares and reconciles both sides of a trade in addition to receiving and delivering payments and securities.
What is a collar?
An option strategy that involves an out-of-the-money call and an out-of-the-money put. This is normally used as a long stock protective strategy when the call is sold and the put is purchased. The opposite of this strategy, called a "fence," could be applied as a protective measure in a short stock position.
What is a contract size in an option?
The number of underlying shares covered by one option contract. (100 shares for one equity option)
What is a covered call?
An option strategy in which call options are sold against equivalent amounts of long stock. 
What is a credit spread?
The difference in the premium prices of two options, where the credit premium of the one sold exceeds the debit premium of the one purchased. A bull spread with puts and a bear spread with calls are examples of credit spreads.
What is delta?
The sensitivity (rate of change) of an option's theoretical value (assessed value) for a one dollar change in price of the underlying instrument. Expressed as a percentage, it represents an equivalent amount of underlying at a given moment in time. Calls have positive deltas; puts have negative deltas.
What is an equity option?
An option on shares of an individual common stock.
What does it mean to exercise an option?
Process by which the holder of an option notifies the seller of intention to take delivery of the underlying in the case of a call, or make delivery in the case of a put, at the specified exercise price.
What is an expiration date?
The date on which an option and the right to exercise it cease to exist. Listed stock options expire the Saturday following the third Friday of every month.
What is extrinsic value for an option?
The price of an option less its intrinsic value. The entire premium of an out-of-the-money option consists of extrinsic value. This is often referred to as the time value portion of option premiums.
What is a future contract?
A contract to buy or sell a predetermined Quantity of a commodity or financial product for a specific price on a given date.
What does gamma represent?
The sensitivity of an option's delta at a given moment in time. It is the change in delta with respect to a 1-point change in the underlying. 
What is arbitrage?
A trading technique that involves the simultaneous purchase and sale of identical assets traded on two different exchanges with the intention of profiting by a difference in price between exchanges.
What is a crack spread?
A crack spread is used in futures trading to show the difference between the price of crude oil, petroleum, and heating oil.
What does in-the- money mean?
In-the-money means that the option's strike price is equal to the underlying asset.
How do you calculate margin
take equity divided by market value
What is the maintenance margin
When a stock hits a set loss, the broker requires money or the account will be sold
What are the three types of traders in the market
Informed, liquidity, and noise traders
What is an informed trader
A trader that has the information that the rest of the market doesn't have
what is a liquidity trader
Traders who have excess money and trade for personal reasons
what is a noise trader
traders who think they are informed but are not
what does the market maker do
sets the prices of stocks
How does the market maker maximize gains
get more noise traders to invest by making them think they are informed
does actively managed or passively managed portfolios perform better
passively managed portfolios
How do closed end funds operate
they issue a set number of shares and sell for less than net asset value
how do open end funds operate
always trade stock for net asset value
What is a Load
A fee mutual funds charge either when you enter or leave the fund
can a mutual fund invest in junk bonds
no
what is an ETF
an electronically traded fund that trades on the exchange like stock
When can an American option be exercised
At any time, including before the expiration date
Can a European option be exercised before the expiration
no
what do need for a protective put
buy stock, buy put
what do you need to transact for a covered call option spread
buy stock, sell call
what do you need to transact for a collar option spread
buy stock, buy put, sell call
what do you need to transact for a bull call option spread
buy call, sell call
what do you need to transact for a bear call option spread
sell call, buy call
what do you need to transact for a straddle option spread
buy call, buy put
what do you need to transact for a butterfly option spread
buy call, sell 2 calls, and buy another call 
what is a callable bond
a bond that the company can buy back at any time at a set price
what is a putable bond
a bond that allows the holder the right to sell the bond back at any time
does a callable bond or a putable bond typically have lower rates
putable bond
What is a warrant
a call option that, when exercised, is paid in stock to the company
Should you ever exercise a non-dividend paying stock
no
how do you value a call option
purchase stock and borrowing with a bond
how do you value a bond
sell a call and by delta shares of stock, or sell put and short delta shares of stock
how do you value a put option
Short sell stock and lend a bond
what is portfolio insurance
it insures a portfolio by replication a protected put by monitoring delta and buying/selling stock
What assumptions does Black-Scholes make
assumes volatility is constant and assumes stock is the only source of risk
what is cross hedging
hedging with a commodity similar to what you want to hedge with
what does a crack spread hedge
the refining margin
what does a spark spread hedge
utilities
what does a crush spread hedge
soy beans and soy product
What is the ratio for a crack spread
3 CL: 2RB: 1 HO
what is the ratio for a crush spread
1 ZS: 1ZM: 1 Z0
how do you perform a crack spread
buy 3 CL, sell 2 RB, sell 1 HO
What is an Interest Rate Swap
Switched a fixed interest rate for a floating interest rate
What is the purpose of the Black Scholes Model
to price options
what assumption is made by the Black Scholes pricing model in regards to transaction cost
The black Scholes model assumes that there is no transaction cost
what assumption is made by the Black Scholes pricing model in regards to the risk free rate
The black Scholes model assumes that the risk free rate is known and constant
what assumption is made by the Black Scholes pricing model in regards to purchasing securities
The black Scholes model assumes that securities can be purchased in fractional amounts
what assumption is made by the Black Scholes model in regards to when a call can be exercised
The black Scholes model assumes that the call can only be exercised on the expiration date
what assumption is made by the Black Scholes pricing model in regards to price
The black Scholes model assumes that prices are always stochastic
What is a Long-term Equity Anticipation Position Security
any option that has a strike date longer than 6 months' out
Who sets the maintenance margin
the broker
is a stock or an option more risky
an option is more risky
does a stock or an option have more leverage
an option has more leverage
what is the Put Call Parity
the Put Call Parity defines the relationship between the call and put prices
What type of options does the Put Call Parity define
European Options
What is the Put Call Parity Formula
C+(X/(1+r)t)=P+S
Who developed the Put Call Parity
Hans Stoll in 1969
What happens if an option violates the Put Call Parity
the option is flawed and arbitrage is possible
What is a Put Option
an option that gives the holder the right to sell a specified asset at a specified price
What is a Call Option
an option that gives the holder the right to buy a specified asset at a specified price
What is a long position on a stock
a call option
what is a short position on a stock
a put option
What is financial engineering?
The use of mathethematical models and computer-based trading technology to synthesize new financial products.
What does it mean to bundle securities?
Combining more than one security into a composite security.
What is the bid-ask spread?
The difference between the bid and ask price, which is the dealer's source of profit.
What is a certificate of deposit?
A time deposit with a bank.
What is LIBOR?
London Interbank Offered Rate, which is the rate at which large banks in London are wlling to lend money themselves.
Who are municipal bonds issued by?
State and local governments.
What are the two most important characeristics of common stock?
Residual claim and limited liability.
What is the price-earnings ratio?
The ratio of the current stock price to last year's earnings per share.
Does preferred stock pay a fixed or floating amount?
Fixed.
Does the Dow Jones Industrial Average use price-weighted average or a market value-weighted index?
Price-weighted average.
What is a call option?
Gives its holder the right to purchase an asset for a specified price.
What is the strike price?
The specified price in an option to buy or sell an asset.
What is a put option?
Gives its holder the right to sell an asset for a specified price.
What does IPO stand for?
Initial Public offering.
What are the four types of markets?
Direct search markets, brokered markets, dealer markets, and auction markets.
What are the two types of orders?
Market orders and orders contigent on price.
What is a stop order?
The trade is not to be executed unless the stock hits a price limit.
What is a limit order book?
A collection of limit orders waiting to be executed.
What is the largest stock exchange in the United States?
The New York Stock Exchange.
What is a program trade?
A coordinated purchase or sale of an entire portfolio of stocks.
What does it mean to purchase stock on margin?
The investor borrows part of the of the purchase price of the stock from the broker.
What is a margin call?
The broker will require the investor to add new cash or securities to the margin account.
Why do investors buy securities buy on margin?
They wish to invest an amount greater than their own money allows.
In a short sale, does the investor profit or lose money when the security's price declines?
Profit.
What is inside information?
Private information held by officers, directors, or major stockholders that has not yet been divulged to the public.
What are investment companies?
Financial intermediaries that collect funds from individual investors and invest those funds in a potentially wide range of securities or other assets.
What are hedge funds?
Vehicles that allow private investors to pool assets to be invested by a fund manager.
What is a protective put?
Purchase of stock combined with a put option that guarantees minimum proceeds equal to the put's exercise price.
What is the put-call parity theorem?
An equation representing the proper relationship between put and call prices. Violation of parity allows arbitrage opportunities.
What is a primary market?
New issues of securites are offered to the public here.
What is a bond?
A security that is issued in connection with a borrowing arrangement.
What is the premium of an option?
The purchase price of an option.
What does it mean for an option to be in the money?
Exercising the option would be profitable for its holder.
What does it mean for an option to be at the money?
The exercise price and asset price are equal.
When can an American option be executed?
Any date on or before the expiration date.
When can a European option be executed?
Only on the expiration date.
What is a covered call?
The purchase of stock with a simultaneous sale of a call on that stock.
What is a straddle?
Buying both a call and put on a stock, each with the same exercise price.
What is a warrant?
Call options issued by a firm.
What is a collar?
An options strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds.
What are derivities?
claims dependent on an underlying security
What are derivitives used for?
Risk management
what do financial markets do?
aggregate info, set prices, organize behavior
what do efficient markets do?
accurately and quickly incorporate information into the price 
what is securitization?
Bundling of securities
what is a market order?
buy or sell now at best price
what type of order provides liquidity?
Limit Orders
what is a block transaction?
a transaction over 10,000 shares
what is naked shortning?
when you dont actually borrow shares
what is speculating?
buy stock on margin using borrowed money
what does a margin do?
magnifies gains and losses
Does a broker want a margin?
Yes, this is how they make money?
what are the three types of traders?
informed, liquidity, and noise
what does the market maker do?
post bid and ask price
why do we have investment companies?
record keeping and profit management
what is a load?
a fee that you pay
what do index funds do?
tracks indicies that arent actively managed
how are mutual funds sold?
through brokers
what is feduciary duty?
must do what is in your best interest
what are options?
primitive security that is the buidling block for things in finance
where are most options traded?
on the exchange
option contracts generally trade in incremenets of
100
When are American options excercised?
prior to expiration
when are Euroean options excericised?
at expiration
what options does Black Scholes value
European Options
which option has a higher interest rate, callable or putabe?
callable
can convertible bonds be converted into stock
Yes
what is a warrant?
a call option sold by a company
generally, what is a collateralized loan?
Mortgage
what is monte carlo is used for?
Integartion 
what is the purpose of futures markets?
hedge risk
do speculators buy low or high?
low
what are the two types of futures delivery?
physical & cash
what is the basis of hedging?
difference between the spot and future
what does a crack spread do?
hedge the oil refining market
what are swaps?
a series of forward contracts
A spark spread deals with what industry?
utilities
what is one of the largest swap markets?
interest rate swaps 
what do we do in a dark spread?
hedge the coal market 
What do clearing corporation futures do?
guarantees you dont lose more than you put in 
What is equity
Whatever is left over after debt holders are paid
What is market capitalization
How much it costs to buy all the quity of a company
What is a limit order
An order for a certain amount of shares at no higher/lower price than the limit set
What is a block transaction
Any transaction over 10,000 shares
What is margin
Borrowing money to buy stocks
What is initial margin
Amount that must be put upfront in a transaction
What is maintence margin
If the margin gets to a certain point, more money must be put into the brokerage account or the broker will close it
What does margin do
Magnifies gains and losses
What are the three types of traders
Informed, Liquidity, Noise
What is a market maker
Person who posts the asks and bids on options
What is an informed trader?
A trader who has info no one else does which allows them to always gain.
What is a liquidity trader?
A trader that has excess money wanting to gain for certain things.
What is a noise trader?
A trader who believes that they are informed but are not.
What is a hedge fund?
Partnership of investors that uses high risk methods in hopes of realizing large capital gains.
What is a call option?
Gives owner the right to buy at a certain price on or before a specified date.
What is an option writer?
A person who has the obligation to buy and sell options.
What is a put option?
Gives owner the right to sell at a certain price on or before a specified date.
Why is a protective put used?
It is used as a means to protect unrealized gains on shares from a previous purchase.
What is a covered call?
It is an income-producing strategy where you sell call options against shares of stock you already own.
What is the purpose of a coverd call?
To reduce the risk of loss by lowering the potential gains.
When do you use a straddle strategy?
If you expect a stock to be more volatile than the market says.
What is a market order?
An order that executes immediately at the best buy/sell price.
What does short selling stock mean?
When you sell stock that you don't own which gives you the obligation to buy those shares back at some point.
What is a mutual fund?
An investment program funded by shareholders that trades in diversified holdings and is professionally managed.
What is an ETF?
It is an investment fund traded on stock exchanges, much like stocks, that mostly track indexes.
How many shares is an option contract?
100 shares
What is portfolio insurance?
A way to limit the worst-case portfolio rate of return.
What is instrinsic value?
Stock price minus exercise price, or the profit that could be attained by immediate exercise of an in-the-money option.
What is time value?
The part of the value of an option that is due to its positive time to expiration.
What is the premium of an option?
The purchase price for said option.
What is "in the money" represent for an option?
An option that when exercised, produces a profit for its holder.
What is "out of the money" represent for an option?
An option that when exercised, would be unprofitable.
What is an American option?
An option that the user can exercise their right to buy/sell an underlying asset on or before the expiration date.
What is a European option?
An option that the user can exercise their right to buy/sell an underlying asset only on the expiration date.
When is an option "at the money"?
When the exercise price and asset price are equal.
What is a futures option?
Holders have the right to buy/sell a specified futures contract, using as a futures price the exercise prife of the option.
How do you obtain a long straddle position?
By buying both a call and a put on a stock, each with the same exercise price and expiration date.
What is a spread?
A combination of two or more call options/puts on the same stock with differing exercise prices or times to maturity.
What is a collar?
An options strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds.
What is volatility risk?
The risk incurred from unpredictable changes in volatility.
What are financial assets?
Claims on real assets.
What are derivatives?
Contingent claims.
What does a free market do?
Organizes society to use recourses in the most efficient way possible.
What are the three types of orders for trading stock?
Market order, limit order, and stop order.
What are block transactions when trading stock?
Buying or selling 10,000 shares or more.
What is a noise trader?
A trader who is trading on noise; they think that they're informed but they're not.
Who will always gain when trading stock?
The market maker.
What is a call option?
The right to buy at a fixed price on or before a set date.
What is a put option?
The right to sell at a fixed price on or before a set date.
When can an American option be exercised?
At or before the expiration date.
When can a European option be exercised?
At the expiration date.
What type of option does the Black Scholes Model value?
European options.
What does a covered call do?
Limits losses while giving up gains.
What is portfolio insurance?
A portfolio of bond and stock that replicates a protective put.
What is the purpose of futures markets?
They allow companies to hedge risk.
What is the goal of a firm?
To maximize shareholder wealth.
What is the nominal return rate?
The real return rate plus inflation.
What is the strike price?
Price at which the underlying asset is bought or sold.
What is the expiration date of an option?
Date upon which a claim to an asset expires.
When is an option out of the money?
If exercising the option would contribute no financial gain.
What is cannibalization in a firm?
The launch of a new product or project at the expense of an old one.
What is capital structure?
How a firm arranges their financing between debt and equity.
What is the agency problem?
A conflict of interest between a company's management and stockholders.
What is the international money market?
The international market for debt with maturity under one year.
What is declaration data?
When a company releases a statement with information about paying dividends.
What is a stock split?
When a company gives current shareholders new shares in proportion to the amount that they already own.
What is stock repurchase?
When a company repurchases its own stock.
What is working capital?
A firm's current assets minus current liabilities.
What do markets do?
Aggregate information to set prices and organize society.
What do efficient markets do?
Accurately and quickly incorporate information into the pricing of assets.
In a price-weighted index which stock has the largest effect?
The stock with the highest price.
What is the bid-ask spread?
The amount that the ask price exceeds the bid price.
What type of orders provide liquidity?
Limit orders.
What is shorting stock?
The opposite of buying stock; selling stock that you don't own.
What are the three types of traders in the market?
Informed traders, liquidity traders, and noise traders.
What type of traders always gain in the market?
Informed traders.
How are options traded?
In units of 100 contracts?
What is an option's payoff?
The option's intrinsic value minus the premium payed for the option.
What is the goal when writing options?
To write a lot of options and make small gains on each.
Why do equity holders want to take on more risk?
Because more risk means more gain.
What is the strike price
Price at which you can buy or sell at
What Right do you hvae when you buy a call option
The Right to buy at a certain price
What Right do you have when you buy a put option
The right to sell at a certain price
When you issue a call option what must you do
Sell the stock back at a certian price 
When you issue a put option what must you do
Buy the stock at a certain price 
What are the three types of traders
Informed, Liquidity, and Noise Traders
What type of trader will beat the Market
Informed Trader
What traders will lose to the market
Noise Traders and Liquidity
What is the price represent to the ticker symbol
The last trade price
What will an open endu fun trade for
Net asset value 
When does a stock holder receive a dividend
When all debtholders have been paid
The Dow Jones is measure in what kind of index
Price weighted index
The S&P is what kind of index
Value wegited index 
Is a hedge fund regulated
No
When can you exercise a American Option
Before the exeperation date
When can you exercise a European Option
On the experation date
You submit a Market Buy Order what price to you buy at
The ask price
You submit a Market Sell Order what price to you sell at
The bid price
What is a Consolidated Tap
A pool of all exchanges except for dark horse
Is the bond market or stock market bigger
The Bond Market
What is more liquid stocks or bonds
Stocks
How do you short sell stock
You sell stock and hold a negative ammount of shares
Do Free Market promote competition
No, they kill competition
How do you beat the market
You must have instide infromation
Who gets paid first Debt or Equity holder 
Debt Holder 
What are Financial Assets 
Claims on Real assets
What are Real assets
Something that we can go off, Economy
What is an Efficient Market
A market that contains all public information
How long is a money market fund
Short term less than 1 year
What is a block transaction
A large transaction
What is the downfal to a block transaction
Seller can raise prices
Does a Market order provide liquidity
No
Does a Limit order provide liquidity
Yes 
What is a Stop Order
An order to sell a stock once it reaches a certain price
Is a limit order garunteed
No
Can you ever get rid of risk
No there will always be unsystematic risk
How do you value a derivative
It is based on another security
Why do you buy stocks
You have more than you need now and you want to conumse more money later
What do Financial Market do
Allow you to take on as much risk as you want
What does seperating ownerhsip and management do
Allows more money to be put into the business
When you take on more risk what do you expect
More Return
What is passive management
If the market is efficient you just buy the market
What does the auction market specialist do
All trades go through him
What happens if you put a limit buy order in
You buy the stock at the lowest price
What are real assets
The land, buildings, machines, and knowledge that can be used to produce goods and services
What are financial assets
The means by which individuals hold their claims on real assets
What is equity
It represents shared ownership in the corporation
What are derivative securities
Securities that are determined by the prices of other assets such as bond or stock prices
What is securtiy selection
It is the choice of which particular securities to hold within each asset class
What is security analysis
Security analysis involves the valuation of particular securities that might be included in the portfolio
What is a bond
An instrument of indebtedness of the bond issuer to the holders
What is financial engineering 
It's the use of mathematical models and computer-based trading to create new financial products
What is the ask price 
The price you have to pay to buy T-bill from a securities dealer
What is the bid price
It is the lower price you would receive if you wanted to sell a bill to a dealer
What is a certificate of deposit or CD?
A time deposit with a bank.
What is commercial paper?
Prestigious companies often issue their wn short-term unsecured debt notes rather than borrow directly from banks.
What are Eurodollars?
Dollar-denominated deposits at foreign banks or foreign branches of American banks.
What are repurchase agreements or "repos"?
A form of short-term borrowing.
What are federal funds?
Funds in the reserve account of the Federal Reserve bank.
What is LIBOR?
The rate at which large banks in London are willing to lend money among themselves.
What is a Treasury note?
A marketable U.S. government debt security with a fixed interest rate and a maturity between 1 and 10 years.
What is yield to maturity?
It's the discount rate at which the sum of all future cash flows from the bond is equal to the price of the bond.
What is the meaning of residual claim?
It means that stockholders are the last in line of all those who have a claim on the assets and income of the corporation.
What is the definition of a call option?
It gives its holder the right to purchase an asset for a specific price.
What is a put option?
A put option gives its holder the right to sell an asset for a specified exercise price. 
What is a strike price?
It is the price at which the holder of a call or put can purchase an asset.
What is a futures contract?
It is a contract for the delivery of an asset at a specified delivery or maturity date for an agreed price.
What is an IPO?
An issuance of stocks by former privately ownd companies that are going public.
What is a limit order?
An order placed with a bank or brokerage to buy or sell a set amount of a financial instrument at a specified price or better.
What is a stop order?
The opposite of a limit order where it is left to ensure that the transaction does not take place at a price worse than the target.
What is a block transaction?
Trades of blocks of tens of thousands or shares of stock.
What is a program trade?
Is a coordinated purchase or sale of an entire portfolio of stocks.
What does "purchasing stocks on margin" mean?
It means the investor borrows part of the purchase price of the stock from a broker. 
What is the margin?
The portion of the purchase price contributed by the investor.
What is a short sale?
An investor borrows a share of stock from a broker and sells it.
What is a hedge fund?
It allows private investors to pool assets to be invested by a fund manager.
What is the risk-free rate?
The rate an investor can earn by putting money in risk-free assets.
What is risk premium?
The difference between the expected HPR(holding period) and the risk free rate.
What is market risk?
Risk that remains even after diversification.
What is unsystematic risk?
Risk that can be eliminated by diversification.
What is diversification?
Allocating capital to reduce the risk of a particular asset(s) or risk.
What is the CAPM?
A model to determine the theoretically appropriate required rate of return of an asset.
What is liquidity?
The ease to which an asset can be sold at fair market value.
What is volatility?
Volatility is the degree of variation of a trading price series as measured by the standard deviation or returns.
What is your favourite colour?
Blue
What causes a steeper SML slope?
Higher levels of investor risk aversion
What reduces WACC?
If the market risk premium declines
What is the NPV method?
Is assumes that cash flows will be reinvested at the WACC
What is the IRR method?
It assumes reinvestment at the IRR
Operating expenses are?
Ongoing costs a company pays to run its basic business
What is the goal of finance management?
To make more money or add value to the owners of the firm
As rates increase, bond prices will ________. As debt increases, risk will _________.
Decrease, Increase
Premuim bond is?
Selling for higher than the face value of the bond
What is annuity?
Series of regular payments
Accounting insolveny is?
When companies liabilities exceeds its assets
Total gain or loss consists of?
Capital gain or loss plus any income you received
What is range?
The simplest measure of risk
What is (RM-RF)?
Market Risk premium
What is B(RM-RF)?
Risk Premium
Higher the risk equals?
Higher the reurn of investment
Debenture is what?
A bond without collateral
Face Value, Par Value, and Maturity Value all equal what?
$1000
Bearer bonds are?
Owner of the bonds
What is Par bond?
When you sell at par value
Discount bond is?
When the bond selles lesser than the par value
What does B stand for in Finance?
Beta of a stock
When a company borrows money from a bank or sells bonds, it is called?
Debt Finanacing
To get the operating cash flow, given the net income, we add back what?
Depreciation 
Maturity bonds are what kind of debt?
Long term
A note is what?
A loan less than 10 years
A bid price is?
What a customer is willing to pay
IRR is measured as a?
Percent
Can a firm spend its operating cash flow?
Yes
What is cost of debt?
The return the bank or bondholder demands on new borrowing
Finance is?
The art and science of managing wealth
Three main functions of a financial manager are?
Capital Budgeting, Capital Structure, and Working Capital Management
Probability Distribution must always add to?
One
What is the Volcker Rule?
Insured institutions may not engage in proprietary trading
Longing a stock is?
Buying a stock thinking it will appreciate
Shorting a stock is?
Buying an instrument to profit in a down market
Increase in interest rate has what affect on supply?
Increase in supply
Pecking Order is?
How mature companies finance their growth
Cedit unions are?
Nonprofit organizations 
Lagging economic indicatord happens?
After the economy changes
Lower GDP is?
Recession
A business that is owned by one person is called
A sole proprietorship
What is similar to a proprietorship except that there are two or more owners 
A partnership
What's the definition of liquidity
the speed and ease with which an asset can be converted to cash
The difference between a firm's current assets and its current liabilities is called
net working capital
The use of debt in a firm's capital structure is called
financial leverage
The true value of any asset is 
Its market value
What is the market value
the amount of cash we would get if we actually sold it
The firm's assets on the balance sheet are called
book values
The income statement equation is
revenues minus expenses equals income
The equation for earnings per share is
net income divided by total shares outstanding
The equations for dividends per share is
total dividends divided by total shares outstanding
Expenses charged against revenues that do not directly affect cash flow are called
non-cash items
An example of a non-cash item would be
Depreciation
What is marginal tax rate
the extra tax you would pay if you earned one more dollar
When you divide your tax bill by your taxable income that's called
your average tax rate
What are the three components that are involved in cash flow from assets
operating cash flow, capital spending, change in net working capital
The simple definition of operating cash flow is
Cash generated from a firm's normal business activities
When calculating ocf what are two things you don't want to include
interest and depreciation 
Can net capital spending be negative? 
Yes, this would be possible if the firm sold off more assets than it purchased. 
What is another name for cash flow from assets?
free cash flow
When you want to compare financial statement what are those types of statements called
common-size statements
What is the definition of common-size statements
a standardized financial statement presenting all  items in percentages terms. 
What are financial ratios?
relationships determined from a firm's financial information and used for comparison purposes
What is another name for quick ratio
acid test 
What is the equation for quick ratio
current assets minus inventory divided by current liabilities
What is the cash ratio?
Cash divided by current liabilities
What is the total debt ratio?
total assets minus total equity divided by total assets
how do you find receivables turnover?
sales divided by account receivable
To make the receivables turnover answer more understandable what do you have to do?
Take the receivables turnover and divide it by 365 to see how many days
How do we calculate ROE?
Profit margin times total asset turnover times Equity multiplier
What is the difference between ROA and ROE?
the reflection of the use of financial leverage
If you want to find out how much money you need to invest in order to have a certain amount in the future what formula do you have to use?
FV=PV*(1+i)^t
What is the financial topics are grouped into four main areas?
Corporate finance 2. Investments 3. Financial institutions 4. International finance
What is the process of planning and managing a firm’s long-term investments?
Capital budgeting
What is the mixture of debt and equity maintained by a firm?
Capital structure
What is a firm’s short-term assets and liabilities?
Working capital
What is a business owned by a single individual?
Sole proprietorship
What is a business formed by two or more individuals or entities?
Partnership
What is a business created as a distinct legal entity owned by one or more individuals or entities?
Corporation
The goal of financial management
Profit Maximization
General Financial Management Goal
Maximize the market value of the existing owners' equity
What is the possibility of conflict of interest between the owners and management of a firm?
Agency problem
What is the someone other than a stockholder or creditor who potentially has a claim on the cash flows of the firm?
Stakeholder
What is the financial statement showing a firm’s accounting value on a particular date?
Balance sheet
What is the current assets less current liabilities?
Networking capital
What is the common set of standards and procedures by which audited financial statements are prepared?
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
What is the financial statement summarizing a firm’s performance over a period of time?
Income statement
What is the expenses charged against revenues that do not directly affect cash flow, such as depreciation?
Noncash items
What is the total taxes paid divided by total taxable income?
Average tax rate
What is the amount of tax payable on the next dollar earned?
Marginal tax rate
What is the total of cash flow to creditors and cash flow to stockholders, consisting of the following: operating cash flow, capital spending, and change in networking capital?
Cash flow from assets
What is the cash generated from a firm’s normal business activities?
Operating cash flow
What is another name for cash flow from assets?
Free cash flow
What is a firm’s interest payments to creditors less net new borrowings?
Cash flow to creditors
What is the dividends paid out by a firm less net new equity raised?
Cash flow to stockholders
What is a standardized financial statement presenting all items in percentage terms, Balance sheet items are shown as a percentage of assets and income statement items as a percentage of sales?
common-size statement
What is one way to go about estimating the levels of risk aversion we might expect to observe in practice?
To observe individuals’ decisions when confronted with risk. 
What does the capital allocation line (CAL) depict?
The CAL depicts all the risk-return combinations available to investors.
What does the slope of the CAL equal?
The slope of CAL (S) equals the increase in the expected return of the complete portfolio per unit of additional standard deviation. 
What does the security market line (SML) portray?
The SML portrays the expected return-beta relationship (graphically).
What is a stock’s alpha?
A stock’s alpha is the difference between the fair and actually expected rates of return on a stock.
What is the liquidity of an asset?
The liquidity of an asset is the ease and speed with which it can be sold at fair market value. 
How can illiquidity be measured?
Illiquidity can be measured in part by the discount from fair market value a seller must accept if the asset is to be sold quickly.
A perfectly liquid asset is one that would entail no illiquidity discount.
True.
What is the single-factor model?
r_i=E(r_i )+ β_i F+e_i
What are coefficients sometimes called?
Factor sensitivities, factor loadings, or factor betas.
What does the Law of One Price state?
The Law of One Price states that if two assets are equivalent in all economically relevant respects, then they should have the same market price. 
What does the strong-form version of the efficient market hypothesis state?
The strong-form version of the efficient market hypothesis states that stock prices reflect all information relevant to the firm, even including information available only to company insiders. 
What is technical analysis?
Technical analysis is essentially the search for recurrent and predictable patterns in stock prices.
What does fundamental analysis represent?
It represents an attempt to determine the present discounted value of all the payments a stockholder will receive from each share of stock. 
What is the pure exchange rate risk?
Exchange rate risk is the risk borne by investments in foreign safe assets.
What does currency selection measure?
Currency selection measures the contribution to total portfolio performance attributable to exchange rate fluctuations relative to the investor’s benchmark currency, which we will take to be the U.S. dollar. 
What does country selection measure?
Country selection measures the contribution to performance attributable to investing in the better-performing stock markets of the world. 
How can stock selection be measured?
Stock selection ability may be measured as the weighted average of equity returns in excess of the equity index in each country.
How can cash/bond selection be measured?
Cash/bond selection may be measured as the excess return derived from weighting bonds and bills differently from some benchmark weights.
What are the three basic factors that determine the real interest rate?
Supply, demand, and government actions.
How can we state the so-called Fisher equation?
R=r+E(i)
What is the effective annual rate (EAR)?
The percentage increase in funds invested over a 1-year horizon.
What is the excess return?
The difference in any particular period between the actual rate of return on a risky asset and the risk-free rate. 
The degree to which investors are willing to commit funds to stocks depends on?
Risk aversion. 
What is the Sharpe ratio (for portfolios)?
Sharpe ratio (for portfolios)=  (Risk Premium)/(SD of excess return)
What is Kurtosis?
Kurtosis is a measure of the degree of fat tails.
What is Kurtosis equal to?
Kurtosis=  〖E[r(s)-E(r)]〗^4/σ^4 -3
What is the formula for Skew?
Skew=  〖E[r(s)-E(r)]〗^3/σ^3 
If the true distribution of continuously compounded returns is normal, both kurtosis and skewness should be?
Zero. 
What does CTE stand for?
Conditional tail expectation.
What is an appropriate measure of risk for non-normal distributions is the standard deviation computed solely from values below the expected return?
This is a measure of “downside risk” and is called the lower partial standard deviation (LPSD).
What is the conditional tail expectation?
Expectation of a random variable conditional on its falling below some threshold value. Often used as a measure of down-side risk. 
A risky investment with a risk premium of zero is sometimes called what?
A fair game. 
What do investors who are risk averse reject?
Investors who are risk averse reject investment portfolios that are fair games or worse. 
What is the utility score?
U=E(r)-1⁄2 Aσ^2
What do risk-neutral investors judge?
Risk-neutral investors judge risky prospects solely by their expected rates of return. 
What do risk lovers engage in?
 A risk lover is willing to engage in fair games and gambles; this investor adjusts the expected return upward to take into account the “fun” of confronting the prospect’s risk. 
The Sharpe ratio is also referred to as?
The reward-to-volatility ratio.
The expected return of the complete portfolio equation is equal to?
E(r_C )=r_f+y[E(r_P )-r_f ]
The variance of the overall portfolio is?
σ_C^2=y^2 σ_P^2
What does a passive strategy describe?
A passive strategy describes a portfolio decision that avoids any direct or indirect security analysis. 
What is the capital market line (CML)?
The capital allocation line provided by 1-month T-bills and a broad index of common stocks. 
What is the insurance principle?
The reduction of risk to very low levels in the case of independent risk sources. 
What is the risk that remains even after extensive diversification?
Market risk. 
Market risk is also known as?
Systematic risk or nondiversifiable risk. 
The risk that can be eliminated by diversification is called?
Unique risk, firm-specific risk, nonsystematic risk, or diversifiable risk. 
The minimum-variance portfolio has a standard deviation of what?
The minimum-variance portfolio has a standard deviation smaller than that of either of the individual component assets.
What is the portfolio opportunity set?
The expected return-standard deviation pairs of all portfolios that can be constructed from a given set of assets. 
What is the reward-to-volatility (Sharpe) ratio?
The reward-to-volatility (Sharpe) ratio is the slope of the CAL combining T-bills and the minimum-variance portfolio. 
What is the optimal risky portfolio?
Optimal risky portfolio is an investor’s best combination of risky assets to be mixed with safe assets to form the complete portfolio. 
What is the minimum-variance frontier?
The frontier is a graph of the lowest possible variance that can be attained for a given portfolio expected return. 
What is the part of the frontier that lies above the global minimum-variance portfolio?
The efficient frontier of risky assets.
What is a separation property?
A separation property is the property that portfolio choice can be separated into two independent tasks: (1) determination of the optimal risky portfolio, which is purely technical problem, and (2) the personal choice of the best mix of the risky portfolio and the risk-free asset.
What does SCL stand for?
Security characteristic line.
What is the security characteristic line? 
The security characteristic line (SCL) is a plot of the excess return on a security over the risk-free rate as a function of the excess return on the market.
What is the book-to-market effects?
The tendency for stocks of firms with high ratios of book-to-market value to generate abnormal returns. 
What does the M^2 measure focus on?
The  M^2measure focuses on total volatility as a measure of risk, but its risk-adjusted measure of performance has the easy interpretation of a differential return relative to the benchmark index. 
M^2 is equal to:
M^2= r_(P*)-r_M
The risk profile of hedge funds may change rapidly.
True.
Hedge funds have greater leeway than what?
Hedge funds have far greater leeway than mutual funds to change investment strategy opportunistically. 
Hedge funds tend to invest in what type of assets?
Illiquid assets.
Many hedge funds pursue what type of strategies?
Many hedge funds pursue strategies that may provide apparent profits over long periods of time, but expose the fund to infrequent but severe losses. 
When hedge funds are evaluated as a group, what can be a major consideration?
When hedge funds are evaluated as a group, survivorship bias can be a major consideration, because turnover in this industry is far higher than for investment companies such as mutual funds.
What pays the risk-free return when the market is bearish?
The portfolio.
The attribution method explains the difference in returns between a managed portfolio, P, and a selected benchmark portfolio, B, is called?
Bogey.
What is the bogey portfolio’s rate of return?
r_B=∑_(i=1)^n▒〖W_Bi r_Bi 〗
What is Sharpe’s measure?
Sharpe’s measure is the reward-to-volatility ratio; ratio of portfolio excess return to standard deviation.
What is the dollar-weighted rate of return?
The dollar-weighted rate of return is the internal rate of return on an investment.
What is the comparison universe?
The comparison universe is the collection of money managers of similar investment style used for assessing relative performance of a portfolio manager. 
What is the information ratio?
The information ratio is a ratio of alpha to the standard deviation of diversifiable risk. 
What is a Hedge Fund
a limited partnership of investors that uses high risk methods, such as investing with borrowed money, in hopes of realizing large capital gains
what is a tranche
a portion of something, especially money
What is a stock
An equity security that is a purchased ownership interest in a company entitling you to a portion or profits
What is a corporate bond
debt instrument issued by a company that acts as a loan when you invest in the bond. 
What is a government bond
bond issued by the US federal government; commonly used bond to help finance national debt
What is a municipal bond
debt securities from state and local government entities
What is a mutual fund
A fund made up of a variety of diversified securities
what is a stock option
the right to buy or sell stock at a certain price for a period of time
what is a call option
the right to buy a stock for a specified price 
what is a put option
the right to sell a stock for a specified price
What is a futures contract
an agreement to sell a specific commodity at a specified price at a future date
What is a futures option
The right to buy or sell a futures contract at a certain price for a specified period of time
What type of security is a stock option?
a derivative security
What type of security is a futures contract
a derivative security
Who sets the laws regulating the trading of securities
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
What type of security is a mutual fund
It is an equity security
What type of security is a bond
A debt security
What is the Pecking Order Theory
that firms have a preferred order of funds/capital sources that they use in order
What is the intrinsic value of a stock
value based on the company’s fundamentals
What is the market value of a stock
value based on marginal investments of the stock in the market
What is pairs trading
a market-neutral trading strategy that matches a long position with a short position in a pair of highly correlated securities
What is active trading
buying and selling securities on short-term durations to profit from rapid price movements 
What is day trading
A method of active trading that buys and sells securities within the same day
What is position trading
Uses long-term charts and other methods to determine the trends of the market to trade
What is the bid price of a security
the maximum price that a buyer is willing to pay for a security
What is the ask price of a security
The minimum that a seller is willing to receive for a security
What is the bid-ask spread
The difference between the bid price and the ask price of a security
What is arbitrage
Buying and selling securities simultaneously to make a risk-free return
What is the efficient frontier
the set of optimal portfolios that offers the highest expected return for a defined level of risk
What is a portfolio
a range of investments held by a person or organization 
What is diversification 
the process of a mixing a wide variety of investments within a portfolio
What is an interest rate swap
switches the interest rate a between fixed or floating rate
What is the security market line
SML shows how much inventors require in return for the systematic risk for their investment
Who first formulated single period portfolio optimization using mean and variance
Markowitz
What is the input for a Markowitz portfolio
Expected returns, standard deviations, and correlation matrix between each asset
What is the law of one price
if two securities have the same payoff in all states of the world, then the two securities must have the same price
What is a market neutral strategy
Market risk is removed by using pairs trading with uncorrelated market returns
What is portfolio insurance
replicating a protected put through watching delta and trading to lower the risk and insure the portfolio
What is a callable bond
a bond that a company can buy back at any time at a specified price
what is a putable bond
a bond that can be sold by the holder at any time
What is an ETF
an electronically traded fund that is traded like a stock within the market
What is the purpose of the Black Scholes Model
to price options
what is a commodity 
a raw material that can be bought and sold
An unsystematic risk that can be eliminated but market risk 
Remaining risk
The type of risk that is avoidable through diversification
Unsystematic risk
Risk that can’t be avoided through diversification 
Systematic risk
Measure of the degree to which two securities move together
Covariance
Aggressive stock will have a low or high beta
High
What is the characteristic line
line that represents the relationship between a security’s returns and the returns on the market portfolio
What is the beta of a risk-free security
Zero
Beta is the slope of what line
a characteristic line
What does beta measure
the unavoidable risk of a security
what is a company or individual that prefer low-risk and low-return investments
Risk-averse
What is the measure of share price volatility
beta
Modern portfolio theory was introduced in 1952 by 
Markowitz
What is the starting point of a capital market line
risk-free return
What is the utility curve
An investor’s indifference curve
What is an investment strategy that reduces portfolio risk without reducing return
diversification
What is an optimal portfolio
an efficient portfolio that maximizes an investor’s preferences of risk and return
What does delta measure in an option
the degree to which an option is exposed to shifts in the price of a specific asset
What is the hedge ratio
the ratio which compares the value of futures contracts to the value of the cash commodity being hedged
What is hedging
an investment position intended to offset potential losses or gains that may be incurred by a companion investment
What is the utility score do as the rate of return increases
increase
What is the utility score formula
Utility Score = Expected Return – 0.005σ2 × Risk Aversion Coefficient
What is the CAPM equation
Expected return- Rf + Beta (Rm – Rf) 
What does the Sharpe ratio measure
Indicates the average return minus the risk-free return divided by the standard deviation of return on an investment
What is liquidity
the availability of liquid assets to a market or company
What is the liquidity ratio
The ratio between liquid assets and the liabilities of an institution
What does the Fisher Equation tell us
the relationship between nominal and real interest rates under inflation
What is the Fisher Equation
real interest rate ≈ nominal interest rate − inflation rate
How do you correct nominal interest rate for inflation
subtract the inflation rate from the nominal interest rate
What is market risk
systematic risk that can’t be eliminated through diversification
What are factors that effect a nation’s economy?
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates
What is a forward contract?
A forward contract is an agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged.
When was the gold standard implemented?
The 1800s and early 1900’s
What does PPP stand for?
Purchasing Power Parity
What is the forward rate formula?
F=S(1 + p)
How is international financial management different from domestic financial management?
Foreign exchange and political risks, market imperfections, and expanded opportunity.
What are the various categories of multinational firms?
Raw materials seekers, market seekers, and cost minimizers.
What is an efficient market?
An efficient market is one in which new information is readily incorporated in the prices of traded securities.
What is the basic message of the CAPM?
Risk is priced in a portfolio context, systematic risk is priced; unsystematic risk is not priced and doesn't affect the required return a project.
How might a multinational firm use the CAPM?
CAPM can be used to estimate the required return on foreign projects.
What is the goal of Multinational Corporation (MNC)
to maximize shareholder wealth
What is the World Trade Organization (WTO)?
WTO was established by General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to provide a forum for multilateral trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes since 1994.
What are the details of licensing?
Copyrights, patents, trademarks, or trade names in exchange for fees or some other benefits.
What is foreign exchange risk?
The risk of valuation changes resulting from unforeseen currency movements.
What are indirect methods of adjusting funds flow?
Adjust transfer prices, leading and lagging receivables
What is arbitrage?
The simultaneous purchase and sale of the same assets or commodities on different markets to profit from price discrepancies.
What is the International Fisher effect?
Parody condition that says that interest differential between two countries should be an unbiased predictor of the future change in the spot rate
What is currency forecasting?
Prediction of future exchange rates.
What is market-based forecast?
Forecast that rely on information already embedded in market prices.
What are the balances of trade?
= exports – imports
Factors Affecting International Trade Flows
Impact of Inflation, National Income, Government Restrictions, Exchange Rates
What is the impact of inflation?
A relative increase in a country's inflation rate will decrease its current account, as imports increase and exports decrease.
What are the factors that effect DFI?
Changes in Restrictions, Privatization, Potential Economic Growth, Tax Rates, Exchange Rates
What is foreign exchange market?
Allows currencies to be exchanged in order to facilitate international trade or financial transactions.
What are Factors that Influence Exchange Rates?
Spot rate, inflation rate, interest rate, income level, government control, expectations of future exchange rates.
What are BRIC countries?
Brazil, Russia, India, and China
What are BIITS countries?
Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, which are also termed the fragile five.
What are MINT countries?
Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria, Turkey
What are MID rates?
The middle or the average of the rates at which currency traders buy currency.
What are Eurocurrencies?
domestic currencies of one country on deposit in a second country
What are Institutions?
Are the central banks, commercial, and investment banks. Their health keeps the global financial system stable.
What are Multinational enterprise (MNE)?
Is a company that is incorporated in one country and has production and distribution facilities in other countries?
What is the definition of Foreign Exchange?
The money of a foreign country (foreign currency bank balances, banknotes, checks and drafts) in relation to the home currency.
What is a transnational corporation?
A MNE whose ownership is widely spread; managed from a global perspective.
What is the purpose of the "International Parity Conditions"?
Economic theory that links FX rates, price levels and interest rates and therefore explains changes in FX rates.
What is a forward premium/discount?
The percentage difference between the spot and the forward exchange rate.
What is the so-called agency problem?
Separation of ownership from management with the objectives may not be perfectly aligned
What are possible ways of corporate governance regimes?
market-based, family-based, bank-based, government affiliated
What are the three main IMF Exchange Rate Classifications?
Hard Pegs, Soft Pegs, Floating Arrangements
What are some ways firms can engage in international business?
Importing and exporting, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company. 
What are examples of direct foreign investment?
Joint venture, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company.
What is direct foreign investment?
Buying a controlling stake in foreign operations.
What does direct foreign investment represent?
Direct foreign investment represents long-term investment, which countries like.
What are the two accounts that make up the balance of payments?
The current account and the capital account.
How do you calculate the current account balance?
current account = exports – imports
What does it mean if the current account is negative?
If the current account is negative, we import more than we export.
What does the financial account include?
The financial account includes all portfolio and direct foreign investments.
What is portfolio investment?
Portfolio investment it buying non-controlling stake in a company.
What should the sum of the financial account and the current account be? 
zero
What are trade frictions?
Trade frictions are ways to lessen the amount of imports and exports internationally traded.
What happens to the current account when US inflation increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What happens to the current account when U.S national income increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What is a foreign exchange market?
It is a market in which you exchange currencies.
What is a direct quote?
A direct quote is quoted in the amount of US dollars for the other currency.
What is an indirect quote?
An indirect quote is quoted in the amount of the foreign currency for US dollars.
What is a cross exchange rate?
Any quote not including US dollars.
What is a Eurodollar account?
It is a US dollar denominated account abroad.
Is there a reserve requirement on Eurodollar accounts?
No, there is no reserve requirement for Eurodollar accounts.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond that is not denominated in the country’s currency that it is sold in.
What is an example of a Eurobond?
An example could be a yen denominated bond sold in Brazil.
What is a foreign bond?
A foreign bond is a bond that is sold in another country.
What is an example of a foreign bond?
An example could be a Japanese bond denominated in yen.
Do bonds have more protective covenants than Eurobonds?
Bonds do have more protective covenants than Eurobonds.
What are some factors that affect exchange rates?
Inflation, income, interest rates, etc.
What are some types of exchange rate systems?
Fixed, freely floating, managed floating, and pegged.
What is a fixed exchange rate system?
In a fixed exchange rate system, the exchange rate is held constant or given small room to fluctuate.
How are exchange rates determined in a freely floating exchange rate system?
Exchange rates are determined by market forces and have no intervention by governments.
Can governments intervene in a managed float exchange rate system?
Yes, governments are allowed to intervene.
What is a pegged exchange rate system?
A pegged exchange rate system is when the home currency is pegged to another foreign currency or to an index of currencies. 
What is arbitrage?
Capitalizing on different quoted prices and making a profit.
What are types of arbitrages?
Locational arbitrage, triangular arbitrage, and covered interest arbitrage.
What is locational arbitrage?
Locational arbitrage is when a currency is bought at a place that is priced low and sold at a different place that is priced higher.
What does triangular arbitrage capitalize on?
Discrepancies between cross exchange rates.
What is interest rate parity?
Interest rate parity is when interest rates and exchange rates adjust so covered interest arbitrages cannot happen.
What does the interest rate parity line represent?
It represents the spots where covered interest arbitrages are not possible.
What are the main components to the current account?
Payments for goods and services, factor income, and transfers.
What is dumping?
Dumping is when goods that were produced with help from government subsidies are exported.
What are examples of the influential factors of international trade?
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates.
What is intracompany trade?
Intracompany trade is when companies purchase products that are produced by their subsidies.
What is an agency problem?
a conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders 
What are some the common methods that MNCs use to improve their internal control process?
establish a centralized database of information, ensure all data is reported consistently among subsidiaries, implement a system that automatically checks data for discrepancies
Who may be able to prevent agency problems in an MNC?
a parent corporation
What percentage of small businesses account for U.S exports?
20%
What is the main goal of an MNC?
maximize shareholder wealth
What are the most common ways firms conduct international business?
international trade, licensing, franchising, joint venture, acquisitions of foreign firms and formation of foreign subsidiaries
What does the valuation model of an MNC show?
It shows that the MNC valuation is affected when its foreign cash flows rise or when the MNCs required rate of return decreases
What factors affect international trade?
inflation, national income, government policies, exchange rates
What is a tariff?
a tax on an imported good
Where does the most common type of foreign exchange transaction occur?
spot market 
What is the formula to find the bid/ask spread of a transaction?
bid/ask spread= ask rate-bid rate/ ask rate
What is a currency call option?
a currency call option provides the right to buy a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time
What is a currency put option?
a currency put option provides the right to sell a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond that is sold in countries other than the country of the currency denominating the bond. 
What are international money markets composed of?
international money markets are composed of several large banks that accept deposits and make short term loans in various currencies
What are the 5 common approaches when diversifying international stock?
direct purchase of foreign stock, investment in MNC stock, American depository receipts, exchange-traded funds, international mutual funds.
When do banks invest in currency in the foreign market?
when they expect that a certain currency is valued lower than it should be 
What is a forward contract?
An agreement between a corporation and financial institution to exchange a specific amount of currency at a forward rate
What is a non-deliverable forward contract?
A non-deliverable forward contract is an agreement regarding a specific amount of currency, in a specific exchange rate in a specific future date. 
Do corporations have open or closed positions in purchasing foreign currency in the future?
open 
What is an exercise price?
the price at which the owner of a call option is allowed to buy the currency at 
When are call options desired?
When the buyer wants to lock in the maximum price to be paid in the future
In a fixed exchange rate system, do exchange rates fluctuate in a wide or narrow boundary?
narrow boundary 
What is revaluation?
Revaluation is the upward adjusted of the exchange rate by a central bank
What is appreciation?
the increase in the value of currency that is adjusted with market conditions
How are exchange rate values determined in a freely floating exchange rate system?
they are determined by market forces without government intervention
What is a sterilized intervention?
When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market and helps offset transactions in the Treasury security markets.
How can governments affect the supply, demand and equilibrium of currency values?
By using direct intervention
Does a strong US dollar intensify foreign competition?
yes, it does. 
Does a strong US dollar reduce or increase inflation?
reduce
What is arbitrage?
Capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a risk free profit
What three ways is arbitrage presented in the international money markets?
locational arbitrage, triangular arbitrage and covered interest arbitrage
When can you use triangular arbitrage?
When there is a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two currencies.
What is the interest rate parity?
the theory states that the size of the forward premium should be equal to the interest rate difference between two currencies 
What is the absolute form of PPP?
consumers will shift their demand to wherever prices are the lowest.
How can the PPP be tested in the long run?
by using the real exchange rate between two currencies over time
What is the international fisher effect (IFE)?
the IFE specifies a relationship between interest rates of two countries and their exchange rates
What type of currency does forecasting closely follow?
currency that has exchange rates that fluctuate continuously 
What rates does the market-based forecast use?
spot rate or the forward rate
What is translation exposure?
the exposure of the MNC’s consolidated financial statements to exchange rate fluctuations
What is a money market hedge?
The use of international money markets to match future cash flows for a currency.
Is a currency call option holder obligated to buy the currency at the set price?
No, the holder has the option to exercise this right.
What is weak-form efficiency?
It implies that all past and current exchange rate information is reflected in today's exchange rate.
What is semi-strong form efficient?
Semi-strong form efficiency assumes that all public information is reflected in the currency exchange rate.
What is strong-form efficiency?
In foreign exchange markets, that means all private and public information is reflected in the currency exchange rate.
What is a forward contract?
An agreement to exchange a certain amount of currency at a certain rate in the future.
What facilitates the trading of forward contracts?
Forward contracts are facilitated by a forward market.
Who is involved in a forward contract agreement?
A corporation and a financial institution are involved.
What is the bid/ask spread?
The difference between a currencies buying and selling price.
Do multinational corporations use forward contracts?
Yes, they use them to hedge their imports.
How is the percent change in foreign currency calculated?
Percent change in foreign currency value= (S-St-1)/(St-1) where S= spot rate and St-1= spot rate at an earlier date.
How do you calculate real interest rate?
Real interest rate = nominal interest rate - inflation rate.
What is the relationship between interest rates and inflation rates sometimes called?
The Fisher effect.
How can you calculate the return on stock to a US investor who invests in a foreign stock?
R$ = (1+R)(1+e)-1 Where R=return on stock and e= percent change in the exchange rate.
What three barriers have limited international trading of stock?
Transaction costs, information costs, and exchange rate risk.
How have transaction costs been reduced for the international stock exchanges?
One way transaction costs have been reduced is by combining exchanges in a country.
How have information costs been reduced for international stock exchanges?
The internet is the main source of reduced information costs.
How can someone reduce exchange rate risk when dealing in foreign stocks?
The investor can take short term positions in foreign stocks to reduce their risk.
When talking about International Financial Management, what does MNC stand for?
Multinational Corporation.
What is the agency problem?
The agency problem appears when there is conflicting views between the shareholders and the managers of a corporation.
What are the three theories for why a firm pursues international business?
The theory of comparative advantage, imperfect markets, and product life cycle.
What are the four forecasting techniques?
Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed.
How do you perform a technical forecast?
To do a technical forecast you use past exchange rate data to predict the future of the currency.
How do you perform a fundamental forecast?
You solve for the percent change in the spot rate by using the relationships between economic variables.
What are some factors that influence the spot rate?
Change in government control, change in expectations of future rates, change in income, and change in interest rates.
What is used in a market-based forecast?
The spot rate and the forward rate.
What is a market-based forecast?
A forecast that uses market indicators as forecasting tools.
What is a mixed forecast?
A forecast that combines multiple forecasting techniques. These can include a technical, fundamental, and market-based techniques.
What do most multinational corporations prefer to use when doing forecasting?
Most MNCs prefer to use mixed forecasts.
What can firms do if they lack the expertise or manpower to make their own forecasts?
Firms can choose to pay for forecasting services that specialize in making forecasts.
Are forecasts made by corporations or forecasting services perfect?
No, forecasts are rarely perfect and are subject to forecasting errors.
Is the forecasting error likely to be higher in the long-run or short-run?
Forecasting becomes harder the longer out you try to forecast, forecasts for 10 years in the future are likely to have large errors.
What can be used to forecast exchange rate volatility?
Recent exchange rate volatility, historical time series of volatility, and implied standard deviation derived from currency options.
What are the three forms of exchange rate exposure a MNC faces?
Transaction exposure, economic exposure, and translation exposure.
How does the International Fisher Effect theory explain exchange rate changes?
It uses the interest rates of countries to explain the exchange rate changes.
What does the Fisher effect suggest about nominal interest rates?
The Fisher effect suggests that nominal interest rates contain two components, the expected interest rate and the real rate of interest.
What do foreign exchange markets allow?
They allow the exchange of one currency for another at set bid and ask prices.
What is a parallel loan?
The agreement to exchange currencies now but also re-exchange them at a later date at a predetermined exchange rate.
How can a MNC hedge for long-term transaction exposure?
They can use Long-term forward contracts and parallel loans.
What are some ways a MNC can reduce risk if a perfect hedging technique doesnt exist?
They can use leading and lagging, cross-hedging, and currency diversification.
What is a multinational corporation (MNC)?
Firms that engage in some form of internation business.
Goal of MNC's is?
For the managers is to maximize the value of the firm.
Conflict of goals between a firm's managers and shareholders is?
Agency Problem
The sarbanes oxley Act (SOX) does what?
Ensures a more transparent process for managers to report on the productivity and financial condition of their firm.
Comparative advantages is?
When a country specializes in some products, which allows firms to penetrate foreign markets.
Imperfect market is?
Conditions where factors of prodcution are some what immobile.  Costs, and often restrictions related to transfer of labor.
When firms become established in the home market as a result of some perceived advantage over existing competitors is a?
Prodcut Cycle Theory.
What is licensing?
Obligates a firm to provide its technology, copy righs, patents, trademarks, or trade name in exchange for fees or some other benefits.
Franchisisng is?
Obligates a firm to provide a specialized sales or service strategy,support assistance and an initial investment in the franchise for a fee.
This is a venture that is jointly owned and operated by two or more firms.
Joint Ventures
Any method of increasing international business that requires a direct investmet in foreign operations is referred to as a?
Diret Foreign Investment (DFI)
The main components of the current account are payment for?
Merchandise, goods, and services, factor income and transfers.
Balance of trade is referred to as?
The difference between total exports and imports.
Factor income represents?
Income interest, and dividend payments received by investors on foreign investments in financial assets (securities)
A third component of the current account is?
Transfer payments
The capital account includes?
The value of financial assets transferred across country borders by people who move to a different country.
Direct foreign investment represents?
The investment in fixed asset in foreign countries that can be used to conduct business operations.
Represents transaction involving long term financial assets between countires that do not affect transfer of control?
Portfolio Investment
Counterpricing by competitors is?
When a country's currency weakens, its prices become more attractive to foreign customers, so then companies lower their prices.
Privatization is?
The selling of some of their operations to corporations and other investors.
This organization was established to provide a forum for multilaterial trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes.
World Trade Organization (WTO)
The foreign exchange market allows?
For the exchange of one currency for another.
Foreign exchange dealers serve as?
Intermediaries in the foreign exchange market by exchanging currencies desired by MNC's or individuals
What is spot rate?
The exchange rate at which one currency is traded for another in the spot market.
The bid/ask spread represents?
The differential between the bid and ask quotes and is intended to cover the costs involved in accommodating requests in exchange.
Quotations that represent the value of a foreign currency in dollars are referred to as?
Direct Quotations
A forward contract is?
An agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged, exchange rate and date.
A currency futures contract specifies?
A standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date.
A currency call option provides?
The right to buy a specific currency at a specific price, withing a specific period of time.
A decline in a currency's value is often referred to as?
Depreciation
Currency futures contracts are?
Contracts specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date.
What is a straddle?
Uses both a put option and a call option at the same exercise price.
Fixed exchange rate system is a?
Exchange rate either held constant or allowed to fluctuate only within very narrow boundaries.
This reduces the value of its currency against other currencise?
Devalue
This increases the value of its currency against other currencise?
Revalue
In a freely floating exchange rate system?
Exchange rate values are determined by market forces without invervention by governments.
The European Cenral Bank is?
Based in Frankfurt and is responsible for setting monetary policy for all participating European countries.
When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for change in the money supply it is engaging in a ?
Nonsterilized Intervention.
In a sterilized intervention the Fed?
Intervenes in the foreign exchange market and simultaneously engages in offsetting transaction in the Treasury securities market.
Arbitrage can?
Be loosely defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit.  
List foour methods that are used to conduct international business.
International trade, licensing, franchising, and jont ventures
What does <MC stand for and what is it defined as?
MNC stands for multinaltional corporations and they are defined as firms that engage in some form of international business..
What is NAFTA?
NAFTA is the North American Free Trade Agreement. It was put into place in 1993. This plan eliminated trade barriers between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.
What changed Europe in 1999?
Several European countries acoped the Euro as their currency for business transactions. This simplified purchases and selling items between nations in Europe. 
Give four factors that influence a nations economy.
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates
What was the result of the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference?
The International Monetary Fund or IMF was formed.
What are the 5 objectives of the IMF. 
1. Promote cooperation amoung countries, 2. Promote stability in exchange rates, 3. Provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances, 4. Promote free mobilit of capital funds across contries, 5. Promote free trade.
What is another name for the World Bank and what are its primary objectives?
Another name for the World Bank is IBRD which stands for International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The primary objective is to make loans to countries to enhance economic development.
What are the two key components of the balance of payments?
The current account and the capital account.
In the late 1800's and early 1900's what were the exchange rates dicted by?
Gold
Give 3 characteristics of banks that are important to customers who are in need of a foreign exchange. 
Competitiveness of quote, special relationship with bank, and the speed of the execution. 
Describe the bid and ask price and also the bid/ask spread.
The bid price is the price at which you can buy the stock and the ask price is the price of selling the stock. The bid/ask spread represents the difference between the bid and ask price and is intended to cover the costs involved in accommodating requests to exchange currencies. 
What is a forward contract and a forward rate?
A forward contract is an agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanges. The forward rate is the exchange rate specified within the forward contract which the currencies will be exchanged. 
What is the Single European Act of 1992?
With this act capital could flow freely throughout Europe, banks can offer a wide variety of lending and leasing in the EU, Regulations are now similar throughout the EU, and a bank that establishes itself in one of the countries in the EU then it has the right to expand into one or all other EU countries.
What is LIBOR?
LIBOR stands for London Interbank Offer Rate. This is the rate commonly charged for loans between banks.
Give three limitations of hedging the exchange rate risk of an international stock portfolio.
One, the number of foreign currency units to be converted to dollars is unknown. Second, investors may decide to retain the foreign stocks beyond the initially planned investment horizon. Finally, forward rates for currencies that are less widely traded may not exist or may exhibit a large discount. 
Name five common approaches for investors attempting international stock diversification.
Direct purchases of foreign stocks, investment in MNC stocks, American depository receipts, Exchange-traded funds, and International mutual funds. 
What is the price at which the owner is allowed to buy that currency?
It is known as the exercise price of the strike price
What is a currency call option?
Grants the right to buy a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time. 
What is a currency bull spread?
A currency bull spread is constructed by buying a call option for a particular underlying currency and simultaneously writing a call option for the same currency with a higher exercise price. 
Name the most frequent four exchange rates.
Fixed, freely floating, managed float, or pegged
Why do central banks commonly manage exchange rates?
To smooth exchange rate movements, to establish implicit exchange rate boundaries, and to respond to temporary disturbances. 
What is an arbitrage?
An arbitrage can be defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices making a riskless profit. 
Name the four groups of methods used to forecast exchange rates.
Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed. 
What is mixed forecasting? 
Mixed forecasting is the use of a combination of forecasting techniques because most MNC’s do not believe that one single forecasting technique is consistently superior to the other. 
How do you measure transaction exposure?
First the MNC needs to estimate its net cash flows in each currency and then the MNC needs to measure the potential impact of the currency exposure. 
What is the sensitivity of the firms cash flows to change rate movements referred to as?
Economic Exposure. 
An MNC’s degree of translation exposure is dependent upon what?
The proportion of its business conducted by foreign subsidiaries, the locations of its foreign subsidiaries, and the accounting methods that it uses. 
Name four hedging techniques.
Futures hedge, forward hedge, money market hedge, and currency option hedge.
Hedging a larger amount in currency than the actual transaction amount is called?
Overhedging 
What types of firms are attracted to long-term forward contracts?
A firm that has set up fixed-price exporting or importing contracts over a long period of time and want to protect their cash flow from exchange rate fluctuations. 
What is cross-hedging?
Cross-hedging is when the hedged position is in a currency that serves as a proxy for the currency in which the MNC is exposed. 
What type of diversification can limit the potential effect of any single currency’s movements on the value of an MNC?
Currency Diversification
What is IRP?
IRP stands for interest rate parity. Once a market forces interest rates and exchange rates to adjust such that covered interest arbitrage is no longer feasible.
What are 3 considerations when discussing the IRP?
Transaction costs, political risk, and different tax laws
What does PPP stand for?
PPP stands for Purchasing power parity. This attempts to quantify the inflation exchange rate relationship.
Name the two forms of the PPP theory.
Absolute form of PPP and Relative form of PPP
Does the PPP consistently occur? Why or why not?
The PPP does not consistently occur because of confounding effects and because of the lack of substitutes for some traded goods. 
What does IFE stand for?
IFE stands for International fisher effect. This theory uses interest rate rather than inflation rate differentials to explain why exchange rates change over time. It is closely related to the PPP. 
The fisher affect suggest that the nominal interest rate contains two components. What are they?
One, expected inflation rate, and the real rate of interest. 
What is the Exchange rate mechanism(ERM)? 
The method of linking European currency values with the European currency unit before the euro
What problems did (ERM) have in its time.
The countries were highly influenced by the country with the highest interest rate making it difficult for them to could strengthen their own economy.
What is locational Arbitrage?
The process of buying a currency at the location where it is priced cheap and immediately selling it at another location where it is priced higher.
Is there any risk with locational arbitrage?
No since the banks act immediately and banks have a bid/ask spread on currencies.
What is Triangular Arbitrage?
When currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two currencies
Is there any risk with Triangular arbitrage?
No, since there is no uncertainty about the prices at which you will buy and sell the currencies.
What is the difference between triangular arbitrage, locational arbitrage, and Covered interest arbitrage?
In covered interest arbitrage the money is tied up compared to the locational, and triangular arbitrages where money is not.
Why would a MNC decide to Hedge part or all of its known payables transactions?
So that it is insulated from possible appreciation of the currency.
What does the economic exposure calculate?
The sensitivity of the firm’s cash flows to exchange rate movements.
What does transaction exposure calculate?
The sensitivity of the firm’s contractual transactions in foreign currencies to exchange rate movements.
What is the interbank market?
When one bank purchases foreign currencies that it has shortages of from other banks
What is dollarization?
The replacement of a foreign currency with U.S. dollars.
What does dollarization eliminate that a currency board does not?
It eliminates the local currency
What does the purchasing power parity(PPP) calculate?
It calculates the Inflation-exchange rate relationship
What is the fisher effect?
The theory that nominal interest rates are composed of a real interest rate and anticipated inflation.
What is appreciation?
The increase in the value of a currency.
What is the ask price?
The price that a trader of a foreign exchange is willing to sell a particular currency.
What is lagging?
Strategy used by a firm to stall payments, normally in response to exchange rate projections.
What is leading?
Strategy used by a firm to accelerate payments, normally in response to exchange rate expectations
What is a quota?
The maximum limit imposed by the government on goods allowed to be imported into a country.
What does a contingency graph measure?
The contingency graph measures the profit or loss per unit of a put or call option.
What is the J-curve effect?
The effect of a weaker dollar on the U.S trade balance in which initially deteriorates; it improves when U.S. and non-U.S. importers respond to the change in purchasing power that is caused by the weaker dollar.
 What is a currency board?
a board designed to maintain the value of the local currency with respect to some other specified currency
what does the cross-exchange rate reflect?
The cross-exchange rate reflects the amount of one foreign currency per unit of another foreign currency
What are American depository receipts (ADRs)?
Certificates representing bundles of stocks.
Product cycle theory suggests?
As a firm matures it will expand into foreign markets in response to foreign demand for its product.
To assess transaction exposure, an MNC needs to?
(1) estimate its net cash flows in each currency and (2) measure the potential impact of the currency exposure.
What is cross-hedging?
when a currency cannot be hedged, another currency that can be hedged and is  correlated may be hedged instead
What determines effectiveness of the cross-hedging?
The two currencies correlation the stronger positive correlation the more effective will be the cross-hedging strategy. 
Currency diversification?
Used to reduce an MNC's exposure to exchange rate movements by diversifying its business among numerous countries
When is currency diversification most effective?
most effective when the currencies are not highly positively correlated
real cost of hedging payables is measured by?
RCHp= cost of hedging payables - cost of payables if not hedged.
When is there a forecast bias?
When the forecasting errors are consistently positive or negative over time
Methods of forecasting exchange rate volatility?
(1) recent exchange rate volatility, (2) historical time series of volatilities, and (3) the implied standard deviation derived from currency option prices
The Smithsonian agreement called for?
A devaluation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies.
What is devaluation?
A downward adjustment of the exchange rate by a central bank.
Free floating exchange rate system?
A monetary system where exchange rates can move due to market forces without intervention by country governments.
What are yankee stock offerings?
Offerings of stock by non-U.S. firms in the U.S. markets.
Floating rate notes?
Provision of some Eurobonds in which the coupon rate is adjusted over time according to prevailing market rates.
Managed float?
Exchange rate system in which currencies have no explicit boundaries, but central banks may intervene to influence exchange rate movements
A forward contract is? 		
An agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged, exchange rate and date.
What are the two accounts that make up the balance of payments?  
The current account and the capital account.
How do you calculate the current account balance?
Current account = exports – imports
How can currency futures be used by corporations?
The currency futures can be used by a corporation to exchange one currency for another at a specified date in the future at a price that is fixed on the purchase date. It is also called foreign exchange future or FX future.
What is a currency future?
Currency future is a future contract in which specified currency can be bought or sell at pre-determined price and date.
The currency of US?
Common currency is one dollar five dollar, ten dollar, twenty dollar, fifty dollar, hundred dollar and of rarer occurrence are two dollar bill. 
What is the currency in the U.S.?
U.S. dollar
How much is a pound currency in US currency?
1 British pound = 1.5149 U.S. dollars
What is a currency call option?
It grants the rights to buy a specific currency at a designated price with in a specific period of time 
What does PPP stand for?
Purchasing Power Parity
Balance of trade is known as?
The difference between total exports and imports
What is a cross exchange rate?
It represents the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency.
Forward rate formula?
F = S (1 + p)
The fisher effect contains what two components?
Expected inflation rate and the real rate of interest
What is fundamental forecasting?
It is based on fundamental relationships between economic variables and exchange rates
What is arbitrage?
It is the action to capitalize on discrepancy in quotes prices
A foreign bond is?
A bond issued by a borrower foreign to country where the bond is placed
How does Technical Forecasting work?
It involves the use of historical exchange rate data to predict values
Explain the difference between sterilized and nonsterilized intervention?
Sterilized intervention is conducted to ensure no change in the money supply while nonsterilized intervention is conducted without concern about maintaining the same money supply.
What is one difference between currency strangles and currency straddles?
The call and put options of the underlying foreign currency have different exercise prices. 
The two-break even points for a long strangle position are located where?
Between the put option premium and above the call option premium
What are five methods used to invest internationally?
Direct Purchases of foreign stocks, Investment in MNC stocks, ADRs, ETFs, and IMFs 
What does the foreign exchange market allow one to do?
Allows for the exchange of one currency to another
What are the five characteristics of banks?
Competitiveness of quote, Special relationship, Speed of execution, Advice about current market conditions, and Forecasting advice
 What does devalue mean?
To reduce the value of its currency against other currencies 
What does revalue mean?
It increases the value of its currency against other currencies
What is an American depository receipt?
Certificates representing bundles of stock 
What are Eurobonds used for?
Bonds sold in countries other than the country of the currency denominating the bonds
A currency put option provides what?
The right to sell a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time 
What is a currency call option?
Provides the right to buy a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time 
Cross-Hedging is a common method of?
Reducing transaction exposure when the currency cannot be hedged
What does ROI stand for?
Return on Investment
What is a corporation?
A business created as a distinct legal entity composed of one or more individuals or entities
What does OCF stand for?
Operating Cash Flow
What are transaction costs?
Costs associated with buying and selling investments, including commissions, search costs, and taxes
What is the difference between debt and equity markets?
One trades loans and the other trades corporate stocks
What does going public mean?
The act of selling stock to the general public for the first time by a corporation or its principle stockholders.
What is an underwritten agreement?
 Agreement for the sale of securities in which the investment bank guarantees the sale by purchasing the securities from the issuer, thus agreeing to bear any risks involved in the transaction.
Who is considered “insiders”?
Officers, directors, major stockholders, or others who might have inside information on a company's operations.
General partnership means?
All partners share in gains or losses, all have unlimited liability for all partnership debts
What are the advantages to a corporation?
Limited liability for stockholders, Unlimited life for the business, and  Ownership can be easily transferred
What is a Multinational Corporation?
Multinational Corporations are firms that engage in international business.
What is an agency problem?
An agency problem exist when there is conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders.
Why do firms pursue international business?
There are three theories on why firms pursue international business which are the theory of comparative advantage, the imperfect markets theory, and the product cycle theory.
What is the theory of comparative advantage?
The theory of comparative advantage says that countries specialize in specific products and this allows firms to penetrate foreign markets.
What is the imperfect markets theory?
The imperfect markets theory says that factors of production are immobile and incentivizes firms to seek out foreign opportunities. 
What is the product cycle theory?
The product cycle theory says that when firms mature they may recognize opportunities in foreign markets.  
How do firms engage in international business?
They have several methods including international trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions of existing operations, and establishing new foreign subsidiaries. 
What is the balance of payments?
The balance of payments is a summary of transactions between domestic and foreign residents for a specific country over a specific time period.
What is the current account?
The current account is a summary of the flow of funds between one specified country and another due to the purchase of goods and services. 
What is the capital account? 
The capital account is a summary of the flow of funds between two countries due to the sale of assets.
What do the current account and the financial account sum to?
The current and financial account always sum to zero. 
What are some possible reasons to enact trade frictions?
Reasons to enact trade friction include national security reasons, allowing firms to grow inside their home country without foreign investment, and to keep firms competitive against firms that do not have to follow the same government regulations.  
What happens to the current account when inflation increases?
When inflation increases the current account decreases.
What happens to the current account when national income increases?
When national income increases the current account decreases.
What happens to the current account when a nations currency increases?
When a nations currency increases the current account decreases.
What happens to the current account deficit when the current account decreases?
When the current account decreases the deficit increases.
What factors affect Direct Foreign Investment?
Factors that affect DFI include privatization, lower taxes, potential economic growth, and exchange rate.
What factors affect portfolio investment?
Factors that affect portfolio investment include tax rates on interest or dividends, interest rates, and exchange rates.  
What is the main difference between Direct Foreign Investment and portfolio investment?
The difference between DFI and portfolio investment is DFI is a long term investment in a country while portfolio is a short term investment.
Do countries prefer DFI or portfolio investment?
Countries prefer DFI over portfolio. 
What is the foreign exchange market?
The foreign exchange market is a market where one currency is exchanged for another. 
What is a foreign exchange dealer?
Foreign exchange dealers are intermediaries in the foreign exchange market by exchanging currencies desired by MNCs or individuals. 
What is the spot market?
The spot market is where transactions for foreign currency exchange happen immediately.
What is the spot rate?
The spot rate is the rate at which one currency is traded for another in the spot market.
What is a bid/ask spread?
The bid/ask spread represents the difference between the bank’s bid and the ask, or sell price, and is intended to cover the bank’s costs involved in accommodating requests to exchange currencies. 
What is a direct quote?
A direct quote is a quotation that represent the value of a foreign currency in dollars.
What is an indirect quote?
An indirect quote is a quotation that represent the number of units of a foreign currency per dollar.
What is a cross rate?
A cross rate is any quotation that does not involve the dollar. 
What is a forward contract?
A forward contract is an agreement between a dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged, the exchange rate, and the date that the transaction will occur. 
What is the forward rate?
The forward rate is the exchange rate specified within the forward contract.
What is a currency futures contract?
A currency futures contract specifies a standard volume of a currency to be exchanged on a specific date.
What is the future rate?
The future rate is the exchange rate at which someone can buy or sell a currency on a settlement date.
What is a Eurodollar?
A Eurodollar is a dollar denominated account in a country other than the U.S.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond sold in a country but not in that currency.
What is a Foreign Bond?
A Foreign Bond is a bond sold in a country with their currency.
What are protective covenants?
Protective covenants are rules written into a debt contract to make sure a debt holder has best chance of getting paid back. 
What is an example of a protective covenants?
An example of a protective covenants is when a firm cannot increase its dividend too much. 
What does it mean when a currency depreciates?
When a currency depreciates, its value goes down. 
What does it mean when a currency is devalued?
It means that the government pushed down their own currency.
What is needed to complete an arbitrage trade?
To complete an arbitrage the trade must be done in a way that has a probability of expected gain along with no probability of loss, and it does not cost any of your own funds.
What is the commonly accepted goal of an MNC?
Maximize Shareholder wealth
What are the comparative advantages that countries like the United States have compared to Jamaica?
The United States has technological advances, while Jamaica has cheaper labor
What are some examples of franchises?
McDonalds, Wendy’s, Subway, Pizza Hut
Acquisitions allow a firm to what?
Have full control over their foreign businesses and can quickly obtain a large portion of foreign market share.
What is a way that a firm can penetrate a foreign market?
Establishing new operations in foreign countries to produce and sell their goods
Foreign acquisitions and creating new foreign operations require a?
Large investment 
A MNC’s cost of capital is influenced by?
The return required by its investors.
Direct foreign investment represents what?
The investment in fixed assets in foreign countries that could be used to conduct business operations.
Canada, China, Mexico, and Japan are main exporters of the United States. What percentage are they responsible for in US imports?
50%
What are the three barriers that have limited international trading of stocks?
Transaction costs, information costs, and exchange rate risk
The Equilibrium exchange rate will change over time with correlation to?
As supply and demand schedules changes
What is Globex?
A computerized platform that matches buy and sell offers for each standardized contract.
What type of relationship do future contracts and spot rates have?
If one moves the other will move in accordance to the other
What do currency options provide?
The right to purchase or sell currencies at a specified price.
A strong home currency makes consumers of that country?
Buy goods from other countries
In reference to forward premiums across maturity markets. What does the yield curve represent?
The relationship between the annualized yield of risk-free debt and the time to maturity at a given point in time.
What is a limitation of Purchasing Power Parity
The results will vary with the base period used
What does the potential forecast error for a particular currency depend on?
The forecast horizon 
What are the three forms of exchange rate exposure?
Transaction, economic, translation
An MNC can create what, when trying to determine the cash received from hedging?
Contingency Graph
How does translation exposure occur?
When an MNC translates each subsidiary’s financial data to its home currency for consolidated financial statements.
International projects and diversification benefits a firm by reducing what?
Overall risk
The ideal DFI solves what problems?
Unemployment and lack of technology
What three methods are used to adjust the evaluation of risk?
Risk-adjusted discount rate, sensitivity analysis, simulation
What are the two specific factors that an MNC uses to estimate future cash flows
Target-specific, Country-specific 
What are the techniques to assess country risk?
Checklist approach, Delphi technique, Quantitative analysis, Inspection visits, and a combination of techniques
What is the cost of debt to a firm determined by?
The prevailing risk-free interest rate in the currency borrowed and the risk premium required by creditors.
As risk-free interest rates vary among countries what happens to the cost of equity? 
The cost of equity also varies
What does a currency swap do?
It allows firms to exchange currency at periodic intervals.
What is a plain vanilla swap?
A standard contract without any unusual contract additions.
When are open account transactions used?
When the buyer and seller have a great deal of trust with one another and previous experience with each other.
What are the three agencies that motivate international trade?
Export-Import Bank of the United States, Private Export Funding Corporation, Overseas Private Investment Corporation
If an interest rate parity exists the currency will exhibit?
A forward premium that offsets the differential between its interest rate and its home interest rate. 
What techniques are used to optimize cash flows?
Accelerating cash inflows, Minimizing currency conversion costs, Managing blocked funds, Managing inter-subsidiary cash transfers. 
What are the three complications that are associated with optimizing cash flows?
Company-related characteristics, Government restrictions, Characteristics of banking systems. 
What is the difference between forecasted and realized exchange rate for a given point of time?
The forecast error.
What techniques does an MNC use to hedge its payables?
Futures hedge, Forwards hedge, Money market hedge, Currency option hedge
The euro enables residents to partake in?
Cross-border trading and capital flows
What is needed to construct a currency straddle?
Selling both a call option and a put option for a specific currency
What are ‘Red Tape’ barriers in relation to DFIs
Procedural and documentation requirements
What is an arbitrage?
A zero-risk, zero-net investment strategy that still generates profit.
What is an agency problem?
 Conflicts of interest among stockholders, bondholders, and managers.
 What is the ask price?
The price at which a dealer will sell a security.
What does “at the money” mean?
The exercise price and asset price of an option are equal.
What is the bid price?
 The price at which a dealer is willing to purchase a security.
What does beta measure?
The systematic risk of a security.
Comparative advantage suggests an increase in?
Worldwide production
What is a bond?
 A security issued by a borrower that obligates he issuer to make specified payments to the holder over a specified period.
What type of investor is bullish?
 optimistic
 What type of investor is bearish?
 pessimistic 
What is a call option?
 The right to buy an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date.
What is a callable bond?
A bond that the issuer may repurchase at a given price in some specified time period.
What is a collar option?
Brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds.
What is collateral?
A specified asset pledged against possible default on a bond. 
What is convexity?
 The curvature of the price-yield relationship of a bond. 
What is a bond’s current yield?
The annual coupon payment divided by its price. 
 What are discount bonds?
Bonds that are selling below par value.
What is diversification?
Spreading a portfolio over many investments to avoid excessive exposure to any one source of risk.
What does the efficient market hypothesis predict?
That the prices of securities fully reflect all available information.
What is equity?
Ownership in a firm.
What is the exchange rate?
Price of a unit of one country’s currency in terms of another country’s currency.
What is the exercise price of a bond?
Price set for calling an asset or putting an asset.
 What is expected return?
The probability-weighted average of the possible outcomes.
What does it mean to hedge?
Protect a firm from exchange rate fluctuations.
 When two or more firms share responsibilities and earnings?
 Joint venture.
What is an indenture?
A document defining the contract between the bond issuer and the bondholder.
What is inflation?
The rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services is rising.
What is insider trading?
Trading by officers, managers, etc. who hold private information allowing them to benefit from buying or selling the stock.
What is the intrinsic value of a company?
The present value of a firm’s expected future net cash flows discounted by the required rate of return.
What is hedging?
Investing in an asset to reduce the overall risk of a portfolio.
What is inflation?
The rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services is rising.
What is the initial public offering for a company?
Stock that is issued to the public for the first time by a formerly privately owned company.
What is a tariff?
A tax imposed by a government on imported goods.
What is a margin?
It describes securities purchased with money borrowed from a broker.
Does a writer buy or sell an option?
Sell.
What is the par value of a bond?
The same amount as the face value.
What is preferred stock?
Shareholders have a fixed stream of dividends, and no voting rights.
What is a primary market?
Where new issues of securities that are offered to the public.
What are premium bonds?
Bonds that are selling above par.
What is a protective put?
Purchasing of stock combined with a put option that guarantees minimum proceeds equal to the put’s exercise price.
When was the World Bank established?
1944.
What is the premium of an option?
The purchase price of the option.
What is a covered call?
Purchase of a share of stock with a simultaneous sale of a call on that stock.
What is a Eurodollar?
describes US Dollar deposits placed in Europe banks. 
IMF refers to what agency?
International Monetary Fund
Exchange of goods without currency?
Barter
What does appreciation mean?
Increase in the value of currency
What is a hedge ratio commonly known as?
Delta
What form of business do multinational Corporations engage in?
International Business 
What is the goal of the multinational corporation?
To maximize shareholder wealth 
What is a joint venture?
A venture or business owned and operated by two or more different firms. 
In a multinational firm value can be specified in the same manner as what other type of firm?
Purely domestic firms
What influences the cost of capital in a multinational firm?
Required rate of return
What is a balance of payments?
A summary of transactions between domestic and international firms. 
If a country has an increasing inflation rate what will happen to its current accounts?
 They will decrease
 What are the most influential factors that effect international trade?
 Inflation, National income, policies and exchange rates
 Where are foreign stocks bought?
 On the foreign stock exchange
Are the tax effects of dividends and capital gains the same in every county?
 No, they vary among counties
 Forward rates usually vary what other kind of rate for currency?
 The spot rate
 Why do MNC’s use forward contracts?
To hedge their imports 
 Corporations with open positions in foreign currencies can use what kind of option to cover their position?
A call option
 Firms can use what kind of option to hedge possible acquisitions?
 A call option 
 What is a Currency put option?
 When the owner has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within a certain amount of time 
 What does ECB stand for? 
 European Central Bank  
 What three reasons do governments manage exchange rates?
To smooth exchange rate movements, implicit exchange rate boundaries and to respond to disturbances. 
 What is your gain from a locational arbitrage based on?
Amount of money used to capitalize and the size 
 What does the PPP theory do? 
 Attempts to quantify the inflation exchange rate relationship
How can you test the PPP theory?
Choose two countries and compare the differences in the inflation rates to the change in currency value. 
 What two components does the nominal interest rate contain according to the fisher theory?
  expected inflation rate and the real rate of interest 
 Operation of an ANC can be influenced by the changes in what?
 The exchange rates 
 What key factor does technical forecasting use?
 Historical exchange rate 
 Market based forecasting is based on what?
The spot rate and the forward rate
 What is cross hedging?
 A method of reducing transaction exposure when currency cannot be hedged
 What is the third way of reducing currency exposure?
  Currency Diversification 
 Why can’t a MNC portfolio be singled out as optimal?
 MNC vary in their willingness to accept risk 
 What three methods are used to adjust the evaluation risk?
 Risk- Adjusted discount rate, Sensitivity analysis and Simulation 
 The value of a real option is affected by what two factors?
 The probability the real option will be exercised and the NPV 
 If a U.S based MNC wants to acquire a foreign target it must consider what?
 How the future exchange rate movements may affect the targets local cash flows. 
 Some international cooperate controlled MNC’s involve what?
 Real options 
 what can determine the valuation of international divestiture?
 Comparing present value to the value of cash flows. 
 The cap M suggests that the required return of a stock is a function of what?
 Risk free rate of interest, market rate of return and the stocks beta 
 A MNC that increase the foreign sales reduces the stock what?
 Beta 
 What is a Bankers Acceptance?
 A time draft drawn on and accepted by a bank 
 The fisher effect on requires what to determine movement in exchange rates?
  Data on nominal risk free interest rates of the two countries 
 In the PPP theory interest rates are correlated to what?
 Inflation rates
What is the primary accepted goal of MNCs?
To maximize shareholder wealth
What are agency costs?
The costs of ensuring that managers maximize shareholder wealth
What are the three commonly accepted theories as to why firms begin to expand their business internationally?
Because of the theory of competitive advantage, the imperfect markets theory, and the product lifecycle theory
What doess IBRD stand for and what is its primary objective?
The IRBD is the International Bank for Reconstruction and development and its primary objective is to make loans to countries to enhance economic development
What are three factors that affect portfolio investment?
Tax rates on interest or dividents, interest rates, and exchange rates
What are the main components of the current account?
Payments for: merchandise, factor income, and transfers
What does a negative current account balance mean?
A negative current account balance means that a country spent more on trade, income, and transfer payments than it received
What are the main components of the financial account?
Payments for: direct foreign investment, portfolio investment, and other capital investment
What was the primary reason for imposing the Interest Equalization Act?
To discourage U.S. investors from investing in foreign assets
What is the main goal of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act?
To require firms whose stock is listed on the U.S. stock exchange to provide more complete financial disclosure
What is an exchange rate?
The rate at which one currency can be exchanged for another
What is a forward contract?
An agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specified amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on a specified date in the future
What is a contract specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date?
A currency futures contract
What do margin requirements do?
Minimize risk by covering fluctuations in the value of a futures contract
What does a premium on a call option represent?
The cost of having the right to buy the underlying currency at a specified price
What is another name for the seller of a currency call option?
A writer
What does the seller of a put option receive?
The premium paid by the buyer
What is a fixed exchange rate system?
Exchange rates are either held constant or allowed to fluctuate within a narrow range
What does devaluation refer to in terms of exchange rates?
A central bank's actions to devalue a currency in a fixed exchange rate system
What does revaluation refer to in terms of exchange rates?
An upward adjustment of the exchange rate by the central bank
What are the four primary categories of exchange rate systems?
Fixed, freely floating, managed float, and pegged
In what exchange rate system are exchange rate values determined by market forces without intervention by governments?
Freely floating
In what exchange rate system is the home currency's value pegged to one foreign currency or an index of currencies?
Pegged
What is dollarization?
The replacement of a foreign currency with U.S. dollars
Where is the European Central Bank based?
Frankfurt
What are the three main reasons that governments commonly manage exchange rates?
To smooth exchange rate movements, to establish implicit exchange rate boundaries, and to respond to temporary disturbances
What is it called when the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in money supply?
Nonsterilized intervention
What is triangular arbitrage?
When currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepncies in the cross exchange rate between two currencies
What is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering your exchange rate risk with a forward contract?
Covered interest arbitrage
What does IRP stand for?
Interest rate parity
What does the yield curve represent?
The relationship between the annualized yield of risk-free debt and the time to maturity at a given point in time
What does the PPP theory do?
Explains how relative inflation rates between two countries can influence an exchange rate as well as provide information that can be used to forecast exchange rates
Why doesn't PPP consistently occur?
Because of confounding effects and a lack of substitutes for some traded goods
What does the IFE explain?
Why exchange rates change over time due to interest rates
What are the four general groups of methods for forecasting exchange rates?
Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed
Which forecasting technique involves the use of historical exchange rate data to predict future values?
Technical forecasting
Which forecasting technique is based on relationships between economic variables and exchange rates?
Fundamental forecasting
What two factors is market-based forecasting based on?
The spot rate or the forward rate
Which method of forecasting involved a combination of forecasting techniques?
Mixed forecasting
What is the difference between the forecasted and realized exchange rates for a given point in time?
Forecast error
Why do small countries prefer Direct Foreign Investment?
This shows that the business is investing long-term
What is a multinational corporation?
A firm engaged in international business
What is the agency problem?
Conflicting goals between managers and shareholders
What are explanations to why firms pursue international business?
Comparative advantage, imperfect market conditions and product cycle
How do firms engage in international business?
International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions, establishing foreign subsidiaries
What is Direct Foreign Investment?
Any method used to increase international business requiring investment directly in foreign operations
Why is outsourcing typically criticized?
It shifts jobs to other countries causing workers to lose their jobs in the home country
What are factors that affect international trade?
Inflation, national income, government policies and exchange rate
What is the foreign exchange market?
The market allowing individuals and multinational corporations to exchange one currency for another
What does MNC stand for?
Multinational Corporation
What is the difference between spot market and spot rate?
Spot market is where foreign exchange transactions occur while the spot rate is the exchange rate that one currency is traded for another
What is the bid/ask spread?
Differential between bid/ask quote to cover costs of accommodating requests of exchange currencies
What is a direct quote?
Where a quotation is expressed in the number of U.S. Dollars per foreign currency
How is an indirec tquote reflecte?
Foreign currency per U.S. Dollar
Why would a multinational corporation decide to use a forward contract?
The MNC may want to lock in a particular exchange rate in order to obtain a currency at a future time
What is a forward market used for?
To trade forward contracts
What are advantages to freely floating exchange rate systems?
The country is protected from other countries' inflation and are insulated from unemployment problems in other countries
What are disadvantages of freely floating exchange rate systems?
A country experiencing high unemployment or economic problems will compound on problems when another country adopts this system
What is dollarization?
Replacement of foreign currency with U.S. Dollars
Why does the government intervene in the foreign exchange market?
To smooth exchange rate movement, establish implicit exchange rate boundaries and respond to temporary disturbances
How can the Fed force the dollar to depress?
By directly exchanging dollars held in reserves for other foreign currencies in the foreign exchange market
What is sterilized intervention?
Intervention by the Fed in the foreign exchange market while offsetting transaction in Treasury securities
What is non-sterilized intervention?
Intervention by the Fed in foreign exchange markets without adjusting for the change in money supply
What is the difference between non-sterilized and sterilized intervention?
Non-sterilized is where the money supply increases and decreases with intervention whereas sterilization does not change the money supply
What is the benefit to a weak home currency?
This can stimulate foreign demand for products causing an increase in U.S. exports and jobs
What is the benefit to a strong home currency?
This encourages consumers and corporations to buy goods in other countries causing increased foreign companies and domestic producers to refrain from price increases
What is technical forecasting?
Using historical exchange rate data to predict future values
What is a weak-form efficient foreign exchange market?
Foreign exchange market where historical and current exchangerate information is not useful for forecasting exchange rate movement
Whatis the assumption of the investor hedge argument?
Taht investors have full information on corporate exposure to the exchange rate
What is economic exposure?
Sensitivity to a firm's cash flows to the exchange rate movements
What does a multinational corporation's degree of translation depend on?
The proportion of business conducted by foreign subsidiaries locations of its foreign subsidiaries and accounting method used
What are techniques for a multinational corporation to hedge its payables?
Use of currency diversification, stakeholder diversification and maintain low exposure to exchange rate risk
What is a money market hedge?
Taking a money market position to cover a future payables position
What does a currency call option hedge do?
Gives owner the right to buy the specified amount of currency at a specified price in a given period of time
What is overhedging?
Hedgiing to increase the amount in a currency than the actual transaction amount
What is cross-hedging?
A common method of reducing transaction exposure when currency cannot be hedged
What is currency diversification?
Method of reducing transaction exposure by limiting potential effects of any single currency's movements on the value of a multinational corporation
What is a parallel loan?
An exchange of currencies between two parties with the promise to re-exchange at a specified rate on the future date
What do leading and lagging strategies involve?
Adjusting the timing of a payment request or disbursement to reflect expectations about future currency movements
What are alternative hedging techniques?
Leading and lagging, cross-hedging and currency diversification
Explain the agency problem of MNCs.
The agency problem of MNCs is a conflict of interest that occurs between a company's stockholders and management of the company.
Why might agency cost be larger for an MNC than a purely domestic firm?
Foreign subsidiary managers raised in different cultures may not follow uniform goals
What factors cause some firms to become more internationalized than others?
The operating characteristics of the firm and the risk perception of international business will influence the degree to which a firm becomes internationalized.
Offer your opinion on why the Internet may result in more international business.
The Internet may result in more international business because it makes international communication and transactions quicker and easier. Instead of having to travel and discuss business and make deals in person they can now skype and make transactions using the internet. 
How would a relatively high home inflation rate affect the home countries current account, other things being equal?
A high inflation rate can increase imports and decrease exports, this would increase the current account deficit.
What are some of the major objectives of the IMF?
The major IMF objectives are (1) promote cooperation among countries on international monetary issues, (2) promote stability in exchange rates, (3) provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances of international payments, (4) promote free mobility of capital funds across countries, and (5) promote free trade.
Utah Bank's bid price for Canadian dollars is $.7938 and its ask price is $.81. What is the bid/ask percentage spread?
($0.81-$0.7938)/$0.81= 2%
Compute the bid/ask percentage spread for Mexican Peso retail transaction in which the ask rate is $.11 and the bid rate is $.10.
[($0.11 – $0.10)/$0.11] = .0909 or 9.1%
Explain the difference between sterilized and non-sterilized intervention.
Sterilized intervention is used to ensure no change in the money supply while nonsterilized intervention is used without concern about maintaining the same money supply.
Assume the spot rate of the British pound is $1.73. The expected spot rate one year from now is assumed to be $1.66. What percentage depreciation does this reflect?
The expected depreciation of 4.05% percent ($1.66 – $1.73)/$1.73 = –4.05% 
Assume Poland’s currency (the zloty) is worth $0.17 and the Japanese yen is worth $0.008. What is the cross rate of the zloty with respect to yen? That is, how many yen equal a zloty?  
$0.17/$0.008 = 21.25 so 1 zloty = 21.25 yen
With regard to Eurocredit loans, who are the borrowers?
Large corporations and some government agencies are the ones that commonly request Eurocredit loans.
Assume that the U.S. inflation rate becomes high relative to Canadian inflation. Other things being equal, how should this affect the U.S. demand for Canadian dollars? 
The demand for Canadian dollars should increase. 
What is the expected relationships between the relative real interest rates of two countries and the exchange rate of their currencies? 
The higher the real interest rate of one country compared to another, the stronger the home currency will be. 
What factors affect the future movements in the value of the euro against the dollar? 
The euro’s value could change because of the balance of trade, which reflects more U.S. demand for European goods than the European demand for U.S. goods.
Compare and contrast forward and futures contracts. 
Futures contracts are highly standardized and are traded on exchange whereas the terms of each forward contract can be privately negotiated and are traded over-the-counter. 
How can currency futures be used by corporations? 
Corporations that desire to lock in a price at which they can sell a foreign currency would do so by selling currency futures.
Compute the forward discount or premium for the Mexican peso whose 90-day forward rate is $0.102 and spot rate is $0.10.
($0.098 - $0.10) / $0.10 × (360/90) =  –.02, or –2%, which reflects a 8% discount
List the factors that affect currency put option premiums. 
The higher the existing spot rate relative to the strike price. The greater is the call option value the longer the period prior to the expiration date the greater is the call option value.
Compare and contrast the fixed, freely floating, and managed float exchange rate systems. 
Under a fixed exchange rate system, the government attempts to maintain exchange rates within 1% of the initial set value. Under a freely floating system, government intervention would be non-existent. Under a managed float system, governments will allow exchange rates move according to market forces; however, they will intervene when they believe it is necessary.
How can a central bank use indirect intervention to change the value of a currency?
Central banks can try and devalue their home currency compared to a foreign currency. They can do this by buying the foreign currency with their currency, the impact is that it will have is an upward pressure on the foreign currency. 
Assume there is concern that the U.S. may experience a recession. How should the Federal Reserve influence the dollar to prevent a recession? 
The Fed could use a loose money policy to stimulate the economy, this could put an upward pressure on economic growth and inflation which could weaken the U.S. dollar. 
What is the impact of a weak home currency on the home economy, other things constant? 
It would increase the country’s exports and decrease its imports which would lower unemployment. This could increase inflation since there is a decrease in foreign competition. 
Explain the potential feedback effects of a currency’s changing value on inflation.
Having a weak home currency can cause inflation which typically reduces foreign competition in any given industry. Higher inflation can weaken the currency even more since it encourages customers to buy goods abroad. On the other hand a strong home currency can reduce inflation because it reduces the prices of foreign goods and makes home producers to have competitive prices
Explain the concept of locational arbitrage and the scenario necessary for it to be plausible. 
A locational arbitrage can occur when the spot rate of a given currency varies among locations. The disparity in rates can occur since information is not always immediately available to all banks. Since this disparity does exist, locational arbitrage is possible. 
Explain the concept of the triangular arbitrage and the scenario necessary for it to be plausible.
A triangular arbitrage is possible when the actual cross exchange rate between two currencies differs from what it should be. To determine appropriate cross rate take the given values of the two currencies and compare them to some other currency.
Explain the concept of interest rate parity. 
Interest rate parity is a theory in which the differential between the interest rates of two countries remains equal to the differential calculated by using the forward exchange rate and the spot exchange rate techniques. It connects interest, spot exchange, and foreign exchange rates.
Assume that the annual U.S. interest rate is currently 8 percent and Germanys annual interest rate is currently 9 percent. The Euros one-year forward rate currently exhibits a discount of 2 percent. Does interest rate parity exist?
No, because the discount is greater than the interest rate differential.
Explain the purchasing power parity. 
This is a theory that states that exchange rates between currencies are in equilibrium when their purchasing power is the same in each of the two countries.
Explain why PPP doesn’t hold. 
The reason PPP doesn’t always hold is because there are other factors that influence exchange rates other than inflation. 
Japan has typically had lower inflation than the U.S. How would one expect this to affect the Japanese yen’s value?
Japan’s low inflation places an upward pressure on the yen’s value but other factors can offset this pressure sometimes. For example, Japan invests heavily in U.S. securities. This puts downward pressure on the yen. 
Assume that the spot exchange rate of the British pound is $1.73. How will this spot rate adjust according to the PPP if the United Kingdom experiences an inflation rate of 7 percent while the United States experiences and inflation rate of 2 percent? 
 According to PPP, the exchange rate of the pound will depreciate by 4.7 percent according to PPP. This would make the spot rate adjust to $1.73 × [1 + (–.0467)] = $1.649
Explain corporate motives for forecasting exchange rates. 
Future exchange rates will affect all critical characteristics of the firm such as costs and revenues. So they can use this to determine when they should do things that will benefit them most. 
Explain the mixed technique for forecasting exchange rates.
Mixed forecasting is a combination of two or more techniques. The combinations can differ in terms of techniques and the weight of the importance assigned to each technique. 
How should appreciation of a firm’s home currency generally affect its cash inflows?
Appreciation of a firm’s home currency would reduce inflows because the foreign demand for that firm’s goods would be reduced thus increasing foreign competition. 
How should depreciation of a firm’s home currency generally affect its cash outflows?
Depreciation of a firm’s home currency would increase inflows because it would likely increase foreign demand for the firm’s goods and reduce foreign competition. 
Why are the cash flows of a purely domestic firm exposed to exchange rate fluctuations?
If the firm competes with foreign firms that also sell in a given market, the consumers may switch to foreign products if the local currency strengthens.
Explain the relationship between this chapter on hedging and the previous chapter of measuring exposure. 
The last chapter explained how to measure exposures which you need to do before a MNC decides whether to hedge its exposure. 
Why should an MNC identify net exposure before hedging? 
An MNC can reduce the amount of cash flow that it needs to hedge when identifying net exposure first, this can reduce the transaction costs associated with hedging.
If hedging is expected to be more costly than not hedging, why would a firm even consider hedging? 
Firms are willing to hedge because they prefer knowing what their future cash flows will be instead of the uncertainty that comes with and open position in a foreign currency.  
All relevant public and private information reflects on today's exchange rates.
Strong form efficeint
What is transaction exposure?
The sensivity of contractual transactions in foreign currencies to exchange rate movements.
What is the exposure of the MNC's consolidated financial statements to exchange rate fluctuations?
It is known as translation exposure.
What are the hedging techniques to hedge payables?
Future hedge, forward hedge, money market hedge, currency option hedge
Who serves as intermediaries in the foreign exchange market?
Foreign excange dealers.
What is often accepted as a medium of exchangeby merchants in many countries?
The U.S. dollar.
What are the costs of maintaining an inverntory of a particular currency?
Inventory costs.
What transactions are facilitaed within the foreign exchange markets?
Trade of financial flows.
What has become larger over time and can easily overwhelm trade flows?
Capital flows.
Who has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within specified period of time?
The owner of a currrecny put option.
What is the balance of payments?
Summary of transactions for a specified country over a specified period of time between domestic and foreign residents.
What happens when a country's currency weakens?
Their prices become more attractive to foreign customers, so foreign companies lower their prices to remain in competition with the firms in the country.
What is the interbank market?
It is a market that facilitates the exchange of currencies between banks.
What grants the right to purchase a specific currency at a designated price within a specific period of time?
A currency call option
What represents the increase in value of a currency allowed to change in response of market conditions?
Appreciation represents the increase in value of a currency.
Is a currency board effective.
A currency board is only effective if investors believe it will last. 
How many popular forms of PPP are there and what are they?
There are 2 forms of PPP. Absolute Form of PPP, and Relative Form of PPP.
Why does purchasing power parity not consistently occur?
Due to the lack of substitutes for some traded goods, and confounding effects.
What theory uses interest rates rather than inflation rates?
International Fisher Effect (IFE) is used to explain why exchange rates change over time, interest rates are highly correlated with inflation.
What suggests that the nominal interst rate contains two components; expected inflation rate, and real rate of interest.
The fisher effect
Q: What is the agency problem?
A: The conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders.
Q: When a country specializes in some products, it may not produce other products, so trading is essential is known as what?
A: Comparative advantage.
Q: What are the imperfect market conditions?
A: Conditions where factors of production are somewhat immobile.
Q: According to what theory are firms becoming established in the home market for at least one more supplier of the product?
A: Product cycle theory.
Q: What are the six most common methods to conduct international business?
A: International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions of existing operations, and establishing new foreign subsidiaries. 
Q: What is franchising?
A: Franchising obligates a firm to provide a specialized sales or service strategy, support assistance, and possibly an initial investment in the franchise in exchange for periodic fees.
Q: What is licensing?
A: Licensing obligates a firm to provide its technology in exchange for fees or some other specified benefits. 
Q: What is a direct foreign investment (DFI)?
A: Any method of increasing international business that requires a direct investment in foreign operations normally.
Q: What does direct foreign investment represent?
A: Direct foreign investment represents the investment in fixed assets in foreign countries that can be used to conduct business operations.
Q: What does portfolio investment represent?
A: Portfolio investment represents transactions involving long-term financial assets between countries that do not affect the transfer of control. 
Q: What are the most influential factors that affect a country’s economy?
A: The most influential factors are inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates. 


Q: What occurs when a country’s inflation rate increases?
A: If a country’s inflation rate increases relative to the countries with which it trades, its current account will be expected to decrease, other things being equal. 
Q: What occurs if a country’s income level increases?
A: If a country’s income level increases by a higher percentage than those of other countries, its current account is expected to decrease, other things being equal.
Q: What are five factors that affect DFI?
A: Changes in restrictions, privatization, potential economic growth, tax rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the factors that affect international portfolio investment?
A: Tax rates on interest or dividends, interest rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the major objectives of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)?
A: (1) promote cooperation among countries on international monetary issues, (2) promote stability in exchange rates, (3) provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances of international payments, (4) promote free mobility of capital funds across countries, and (5) promote free trade. 
Q: What does IMF stand for?
A: International Monetary Fund.
Q: What does the compensatory financing facility do?
A: The CFF attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on country economies. 
Q: What was the World Trade Organization established for?
A: The WTO was established to provide a forum for multilateral trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes related to the GATT accord. 
Q: What does the foreign exchange market allow?
A: The foreign exchange market allows for the exchange of one currency for another. 
Q: What is a forward contact?
A: A forward contact is an agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specified amount of a currency at a specified amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on a specified date in the future. 
Q: The difference between the forward rate and the spot rate at a given point in times is measured by:
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: What is the non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) used for?
A: A non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) is frequently used for currencies in emerging markets.
Q: What are currency futures contracts?
A: Currency futures contracts are contracts specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date. 
Q: What does a currency call option grant the right to?
A: A currency call option grants the right to buy a specific currency at a designated price within a specific period of time. 
Q: What is the exercise price or strike price?
A: The price at which the owner is allowed to buy a currency. 
Q: What is a writer (seller) obligated to do?
A: A writer of call option is obligated to sell a specified currency at a specified price up to a specified expiration date. 
Q: What does the owner of a currency put option have the right to do?
A: The owner of currency put option has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within a specified period of time. 
Q: How can a currency option be structured?
A: A currency option can be structured with a conditional premium. 
Q: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are what?
A: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are either held constant or allowed to fluctuate only within very narrow boundaries. 
Q: What is arbitrage?
A: Arbitrage can be loosely defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit. 
Q: What is a locational arbitrage?
A: The process of buying a currency at the location where it is priced cheap and immediately selling it at another location where it is priced higher. 
Q: What do cross exchange rates represent?
A: Cross exchange rates represent the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency. 
Q: What is it called when currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two countries?
A: Triangular arbitrage. 
Q: What is the covered interest arbitrage?
A: Covered interest arbitrage is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering you exchange rate risk with a forward contract. 
Q: Once market forces cause interest rates and exchange rates to adjust such that covered interest arbitrage is no longer feasible, there is an equilibrium state referred to as?
A: Interest rate parity (IRP).
Q: What is the forward rate written as?
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to do what?
A: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to quantify the inflation-exchange rate relationship.
Q: What is the absolute form of PPP based on?
A: The absolute form of PPP is based on the notion that without international barriers, consumers shift their demand to wherever prices are lower.
Q: What does the relative form of PPP account for?
A: The relative form of PPP accounts for the possibility of market imperfections such as transportation costs, tariffs, and quotas. 
Q: What is the agency problem?
A: The conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders.
Q: When a country specializes in some products, it may not produce other products, so trading is essential is known as what?
A: Comparative advantage.
Q: What are the imperfect market conditions?
A: Conditions where factors of production are somewhat immobile.
Q: According to what theory are firms becoming established in the home market for at least one more supplier of the product?
A: Product cycle theory.
Q: What are the six most common methods to conduct international business?
A: International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions of existing operations, and establishing new foreign subsidiaries. 
Q: What is franchising?
A: Franchising obligates a firm to provide a specialized sales or service strategy, support assistance, and possibly an initial investment in the franchise in exchange for periodic fees.
Q: What is licensing?
A: Licensing obligates a firm to provide its technology in exchange for fees or some other specified benefits. 
Q: What is a direct foreign investment (DFI)?
A: Any method of increasing international business that requires a direct investment in foreign operations normally.
Q: What does direct foreign investment represent?
A: Direct foreign investment represents the investment in fixed assets in foreign countries that can be used to conduct business operations.
Q: What does portfolio investment represent?
A: Portfolio investment represents transactions involving long-term financial assets between countries that do not affect the transfer of control. 
Q: What are the most influential factors that affect a country’s economy?
A: The most influential factors are inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates. 


Q: What occurs when a country’s inflation rate increases?
A: If a country’s inflation rate increases relative to the countries with which it trades, its current account will be expected to decrease, other things being equal. 
Q: What occurs if a country’s income level increases?
A: If a country’s income level increases by a higher percentage than those of other countries, its current account is expected to decrease, other things being equal.
Q: What are five factors that affect DFI?
A: Changes in restrictions, privatization, potential economic growth, tax rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the factors that affect international portfolio investment?
A: Tax rates on interest or dividends, interest rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the major objectives of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)?
A: (1) promote cooperation among countries on international monetary issues, (2) promote stability in exchange rates, (3) provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances of international payments, (4) promote free mobility of capital funds across countries, and (5) promote free trade. 
Q: What does IMF stand for?
A: International Monetary Fund.
Q: What does the compensatory financing facility do?
A: The CFF attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on country economies. 
Q: What was the World Trade Organization established for?
A: The WTO was established to provide a forum for multilateral trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes related to the GATT accord. 
Q: What does the foreign exchange market allow?
A: The foreign exchange market allows for the exchange of one currency for another. 
Q: What is a forward contact?
A: A forward contact is an agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specified amount of a currency at a specified amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on a specified date in the future. 
Q: The difference between the forward rate and the spot rate at a given point in times is measured by:
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: What is the non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) used for?
A: A non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) is frequently used for currencies in emerging markets.
Q: What are currency futures contracts?
A: Currency futures contracts are contracts specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date. 
Q: What does a currency call option grant the right to?
A: A currency call option grants the right to buy a specific currency at a designated price within a specific period of time. 
Q: What is the exercise price or strike price?
A: The price at which the owner is allowed to buy a currency. 
Q: What is a writer (seller) obligated to do?
A: A writer of call option is obligated to sell a specified currency at a specified price up to a specified expiration date. 
Q: What does the owner of a currency put option have the right to do?
A: The owner of currency put option has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within a specified period of time. 
Q: How can a currency option be structured?
A: A currency option can be structured with a conditional premium. 
Q: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are what?
A: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are either held constant or allowed to fluctuate only within very narrow boundaries. 
Q: What is arbitrage?
A: Arbitrage can be loosely defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit. 
Q: What is a locational arbitrage?
A: The process of buying a currency at the location where it is priced cheap and immediately selling it at another location where it is priced higher. 
Q: What do cross exchange rates represent?
A: Cross exchange rates represent the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency. 
Q: What is it called when currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two countries?
A: Triangular arbitrage. 
Q: What is the covered interest arbitrage?
A: Covered interest arbitrage is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering you exchange rate risk with a forward contract. 
Q: Once market forces cause interest rates and exchange rates to adjust such that covered interest arbitrage is no longer feasible, there is an equilibrium state referred to as?
A: Interest rate parity (IRP).
Q: What is the forward rate written as?
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to do what?
A: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to quantify the inflation-exchange rate relationship.
Q: What is the absolute form of PPP based on?
A: The absolute form of PPP is based on the notion that without international barriers, consumers shift their demand to wherever prices are lower.
Q: What does the relative form of PPP account for?
A: The relative form of PPP accounts for the possibility of market imperfections such as transportation costs, tariffs, and quotas. 
What is the maximum limit that can be imported?
A quota is the maximum that can be imported.
How is a country’s currency measured in relation to other currencies?
A countries currency is measured through exchange rates.
What is price elasticity?
Price elasticity is the sensitivity to price changes.
What was the structured international monetary policy that was established by the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference?
The International Monetary Fund was a result of the conference
What is compensatory financing facility (CFF)?
The CFF is a key duty of the IMF in which it attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on country economies. 
What is a quotation that represents the value of a foreign currency in dollars? 
A direct quote.
What is a quotation that represent the number of units of a foreign currency per dollar?
An indirect quote.
What is the loan rate that floats in accordance with the movement of some market interest rate?
London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR).
What is a freely floating exchange rate system?
When exchange rates values are determined by market forces without intervention by governments. 
What is the job of the European Central Bank (ECB)?
It is responsible for setting monetary policy for all participating European countries.
What is nonsterilized intervention?
When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in the money supply. 
What are cross exchange rates?
Cross exchange rates represent the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency. 
What is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering your exchange rate risk with a forward contract?
Covered interest arbitrage. 
What is the international fisher effect (IFE)?
The IFE uses interest rate rather than inflation rate differentials to explain why exchange rates change over time. 
What is the method of mixed forecasting?
Mixed forecasting is using a combination of forecasting techniques because no single one has been found to be consistent. 
What does it mean for a foreign exchange market to be strong-form efficient?
If a foreign exchange market is strong-form efficient, all relevant public and private information is already reflected in today’s exchange rates. 
What is economic exposure?
Economic exposure is the sensitivity of a firm’s cash flows to exchange rate movements.
What is a subset of economic exposure?
Transaction exposure is a subset of economic exposure.
What is translation exposure?
Translation exposure is the exposure of an MNC’s consolidated financial statements to exchange rate fluctuations.
What does a money market hedge position look like?
A money market hedge on payables involves taking a money market position to cover a future payables position. 
How is the real cost of hedging payables calculated?
The real cost of hedging payables is calculated as cost of hedging payables minus cost of payables if not hedged. 
What does the real cost of hedging payable measure?
An MNC can evaluate hedging decisions that they made in the past.
What is overhedging?
Overhedging is hedging a larger amount in a currency than the actual transaction amount.
What is a solution to overhedging?
A solution to avoid overhedging is to hedge only the minimum known amount in the future contract.
What does currency diversification do?
Currency diversification can limit the potential effect of any single currency’s movements on the value of the MNC.
What is cross hedging?
Cross hedging is a common method of reducing transaction exposure when the currency cannot be hedged. 
How do you assess economic exposure?
The percentage change in a firm’s cash flow is compared to the percentage change in the Euro. 
What are typical motives for direct foreign investment?
Typical motives include attracting new sources of demand, enter profitable markets, exploit monopolistic advantages, and diversify internationally.
What are some cost related motives?
Some typical motives to try to reduce costs are economies of scale, foreign factors of production, foreign raw materials, and react to exchange rate movements.
What is economies of scale?
Economies of scale is lowering the average cost per unit as a result of increased production. 
What is simulation used for?
Generation of profitability distribution for NPV based on a range of possible values for one or more input variables. 
What is dollarization?
Dollarization is the replacement of a foreign currency with US dollars.
What does a contingency graph show?
A contingency graph measures the profit or loss per unit under certain conditions.
What is a forward contract?
A forward contract is an agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specific amount of a currency at a specific exchange rate on a specific date in the future.
What is the specific exchange rate in the terms of a forward contract?
The forward rate.
How is arbitrage used?
Arbitrage is used by some investors to earn higher returns than would be possible domestically without taking on additional risk.
When is a non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) used?
A NDF contract is frequently used for currencies in emerging markets.
What is a currency futures contracts?
A contract specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanges on a specific settlement date.
What is a margin requirement used for?
To cover fluctuations in the value of a contract.
What is an equilibrium exchange rate?
An exchange rate in which demand for a currency is equal to the supply of a currency for sale.
What is an arbitrage?
Action to capitalize on a discrepancy in quoted prices
What is the asked price?
The price at which a trader of foreign exchange is willing to sell a particular currency
When is a counterpurchase
Exchange of goods between two parties under two distinct contracts expressed in monetary terms
What is a countertrade
Sale of goods to one country that is linked to the purchase or exchange of goods from that same country
What is cross exchange rate
Exchange rate between currency A and currency B, given the values of currencies A and B with respect to a third currency
What is coss-hedging
Hedging an open position in one currency with a hedge on another currency that is highly correlated with the first currency
What is DFI
Investment in real assets in foreign countries
What is a direct quotation
Exchange rate quotations representing the value measured by number of dollars per unit
What is dumping
Selling products overseas at unfairly low prices
What is a foward rate
rate at which a bank is willing to exchange one currency for another at some specified date in the future
What is an indirect quotation
Exchange rate quotations representing the value measured by number of units per dollar
What is the interest rate parity
Theory specifiying that the forward premium is equal to the interest rate differential between the two currencies of concern
What is an interest rate swap
Agreement to swap interest payments, fixed interest rate exchanged for floating interest rate
What is nonsterilized intervention
Intervention in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in money supply
What is the real cost of hedging
Additional cost of hedging when compared to not hedging
What is semistrong-form efficient
All relevant public information is already reflected in prevailing spot exchange rates
What is the exercise/strike price
Price set for buying an asset or selling an asset
What is a spot rate
Current exchange rate of currency
What is a futures price
The price at which a futures trader commits to make or take delivery of the underlying asset
What is strong-form efficient
All relevant public an private information is already reflected in the prevailing spot exchange rates
Why do investors hedge
To reduce the overall risk of a portfolio
What is weak-form efficient
Implying that all historical and current exchange rate information is already reflected in prevailing spot exchange rates
What are the international money markets composed of
Several large banks that accept deposits and provide short term loans in various currencies.
Who Uses the international money markets
mainly the government and large corporations
How are exchange rate movements measured
Commonly by the percent change in their values over a specified period, such as a month or a year
What does LIBOR stand for
 London Interbank Offered Rate
What are the factors that can influence exchange rate movement
Inflation rates, interest rates, and income levels as well as government controls
When does one buy a currency futres contract
When the speculator expects the currency to appreciate
What are the classifications for the exchange rate systems
fixed rate, freely floating, managed float, and pegged
What happens when the government sells a currency in the foreign exchange market
Puts downward pressure on the currency's equilibrium value
What are commmon forecasting techniques
Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed
What is transaction exposure
Exposure of an MNC's contractual transactions to exchange rate movements
What are two techniques to hedge longterm transaction exposure
Long term forward contract and parallel loan
What is a parallel loan
Involves the exchange of currencies between tow parties, with promise to reexchange currencies at a specified exchange rate on a future date
What the techniques to optimize cash flows
Accelerate cash inflows, minimize currency conversion costs, managing blocked funds, implementing intersubsidiary cash transfers
What makes up a straddle
Buy a call and buy put
Why is a fixed exchange rate adventagious
Reduces risk by having a constant exchange rate
How is the premium calculated
The difference between the forward rate and the spot rate at a given point in time is measured by the premium
What is a difference between a forward and future
Forwards are not traded on an exchange and futures are
How do MNC's use forward contracts
To hedge imports, locks in a rate which they can otain a currency needed to purchase imports
How do you value one countries currency to another countries?
Through exchange rates. 
Why is that if you weaken your currency you will not always fix your balance of trade.
A country could lowers there price of the good
What does the foreign exchange market do?
Allow for the exchange of one currency to another. 
What is the spot exchange rate?
The rate at which one currency could be converted into another currency. 
How long did the foreign exchange market use the gold standard?
From 1876-1913
How do you calculate the bid ask spread?
(ask rate – Bid rate)/ Ask rate
What are order costs.
The costs associated with processing orders and the costs of recording the transactions
What are inventory costs. 
The costs of holding the inventory in the warehouse for a period of time.
What is a forward contract. 
The agreement for a foreign exchange dealer and a MNC that specifies currency to be exchanged
What are Eurobonds
 Bonds that are sold in countries other than the country of the currency denominating the bonds
How do you calculate the real interest rate
Real interest rate= nominal interest rate – inflation rate 
What is a currency call option?
It grants the right to buy a specific currency at a specified price during a specified time
What is a currency put option?
It grants the right to sell a specific currency at a specified price during a specified time
What is the price price in which the owner of a call option can buy it at?
Exercise price or strike price. 
What is a good option for dealing with volatile currencies?
Creating a straddle. 
What is the agency problem?
This is the conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and its shareholders.
What is the Bid Price?
The price in which someone is willing to pay for a certain security. 
What is the ask Price? 
The price someone is willing to sell a security. 
How does firms conduct international business
International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures.
What is licensing?
It obligates a frim to provide its technology in exchange for a certain fee.
What is franchising?
It obligates a firm to provide a specialized sale or service strategy in exchange for a periodic fee. 
What is a direct foreign investment?
Business that method of increasing international business with a direct investment. 
What is the balance of payments?
A summary of transactions between domestic and foreign residents of a country.
What is the current account?
A summary of cash between one country and all other countries
What is the capital account?
A summary of cash from a sale of assets between one country and all other countries.
What is a portfolio investment?
Portfolio investment represents transactions involving long term financial assets between countries
What is dumping?
Exporting products that were produced with the help of government.
What is the goal of a firm?
Increase shareholder wealth.
What is outsourcing?
Outsourcing is when a frim hires foreign labor or a foreign supplier.
What factors affect international trade flow?
Inflation, National income, government policies, and Exchange rates. 
What is a tariff?
A tax on imported goods.
What is a quota?
A maximum limit of goods that can be imported. 
What is the Compensatory Financing facility?
It attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on a country’s economy.
When was the world bank established?
1944
What was the purpose of the world bank
Its objective to make loans to countries to enhance economic development
What does it mean when a bond is selling for Par value?
It is selling for the face value.
What market is used for foreign exchange rates?
Spot market. 
 What is the American Depository receipts?
It is used for non-us firms to obtain equity financing.
What is a foreign bond?
A bond issued by a borrower from a foreign country. 
What is a parallel bond?
A bond that is issued from a variety of countries. 
What does MNC stand for?
Multinational Corporations
Explain the agency problem of MNCs.
The agency problem of MNCs is a conflict of interest that occurs between a company's stockholders and management of the company
What does IDA stand for?
International Development Association
What does OECD stand for?
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
What does BIS stand for?
Bank for International Settlements
What is Franchising?
It obligates a firm to provide a specialized sale or service strategy, support assistance, and possibly an initial investment in the franchise in exchange for periodic fees.
What is a Joint Venture?
A venture that is jointly owned and operated by two or more firms.
What is the Domestic Model Formula used to find?
It is used to find value of a purely domestic firm.
What factors cause some firms to become more internationalized than others?
International trade, Licensing, Franchising, Joint Venture
What are the main components of the current account for payments?
Merchandise and Services, Factor Income, Transfers
What does GATT stand for?
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
What does NAFTA stand for?
North American Free Trade Agreement
Definition of Dumping?
When exporting of products that were produced with the help of government subsidies.
What are the most influential factors of international trade?
Inflation, National income, Government policies, Exchange Rate
What does CFF stand for?
Compensatory Financing Facility
What does SDR stand for?
Special Drawing Rights
What does IFC stand for?
International Financial Corporation
What does WTO stand for?
World Trade Organization
What does MIGA stand for?
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
What does IBRD stand for?
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
What is the Bretton Woods Agreement?
An agreement called for fixed exchange rates between currencies.
How can governments of foreign countries can influence the equilibrium exchange rate?
Imposing foreign exchange barriers, Foreign trade barriers, Intervening in the foreign exchange markets, Affecting marco variables such as inflation
What does NDF stand for?
Non-derivable forward contract
What is another term for a Seller?
Writer
What does ERM stand for?
Exchange Rate Mechanism
Three reasons the US has Central Banks
To smooth exchange rate movement, Establish implicit exchange rate boundries, Respond to temporary disturbances
Definition of Nonsterilized intervention
When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in the money supply.
Definition of Sterilized intervention
The Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market and simultaneously engages in offsetting transractions.
Definition of Arbitrage
Capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit
Explain Triangular Arbitrage
Represents the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency
What does IRP stand for?
Interest Rate Parity
What is the PPP theory?
This theory attempts to quantify the inflation exchange rate relationship
What does the fisher effect suggest?
Expected inflation rates, Real rate of interest.
What is fundamental forecasting?
Fundamental forecasting is based on fundamental relationships between economic variables and exchange rate.
What is market-based forecasting based on?
Spot rate, Forward rate
Formula for real cost of hedging payables
RCH=Cost of Hedging payables- cost of payables not hedged
Alternative Hedging Technique
Leading and lagging, Cross-hedging, Currency diversification
The key components of the financial account are payments for
Direct foreign investment, Portfolio investment, Other capital investment
What is the J-curve effect?
When the US balance of trade improves and the illustration on a graph looks like a J
Define Privatization
It allows for greater international business as foreign firms can acquire operations sold by national government.
What is the process of making and managing expenditures on long-lived assets?
Capital budgeting.
What is current assets minus current liabilities?
Net working capital.
What is a business owned by one person?
A sole proprietorship.
Someone other than a stockholder or creditor who potentially has a claim on the cash flows of the firm?
Stakeholder.
This act is intended to protect investors from corporate abuses.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The ease and quickness with which assets can be converted to cash is called?
Liquidity.
Your tax bill divided by your taxable income is called?
Average tax rate.
A tax rate that is the same for all income levels is called?
A flat tax rate.
Net income divided by the number of shares outstanding is called?
Earnings per share or EPS.
Return on equity is equal to net income divided by what?
Total equity.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid of what two forms of business enterprises?
A partnership and a corporation.
What does EBIT stand for?
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes.
What are the three basic legal forms of organizing firms?
Sole Proprietorship, Partnership and Corporation.
What is Capital Structure?
The proportion of a firm’s financing from current and long-term debt and equity.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
What is an agency relationship?
The relationship between stockholders and management.
Who are stakeholders?
Someone other than a stockholder or creditor who potentially has a claim on the cash flows of the firm.
Under GAAP, at what value are assets carried on the Balance Sheet?
At cost.
Which financial statement measures performance over a specific period of time?
The Income Statement.
What is the matching principle of GAAP?
Revenues must be matched with expenses.
What does the Statement of Cash Flows explain?
The change in accounting cash and equivalents.
What does operating cash flow measure?
Cash generated from operations not counting capital spending or working capital requirements.
How is the current ratio calculated?
Current assets divided by current liabilities.
What are profitability measures intended to measure?
How efficiently the firm uses its assets and manages its operations.
What are pro forma financial statements?
Financial statements in the form used to summarize the projected future financial status of the company.
What is the sustainable growth rate?
The maximum growth rate a firm can achieve with no external equity financing while it maintains a constant debt-equity ratio.
What four factors does a firm’s ability to sustain growth depend on?
Profit margin, dividend policy, financial policy and total asset turnover. 
What is the difference between simple interest and compound interest?
Each interest payment is reinvested with compound interest, whereas interest is not reinvested with simple interest.
What is the opposite of compounding?
Discounting.
What is the difference between a perpetuity and an annuity?
A perpetuity is a constant stream of cash flows without end, whereas an annuity is a level stream of payments that only lasts for a fixed number of periods.
What does amortizing a loan mean?
Providing for a loan to be paid off by making regular principal reductions.
What is the stated annual interest rate?
The annual interest rate without consideration of compounding.
What is the Net Present Value (NPV) Rule?
Accept if the NPV is greater than zero, reject if the NPV is less than zero.
What are the three key attributes to Net Present Value (NPV)?
NPV uses cash flows, NPV uses all the cash flows of the project, NPV discounts the cash flows properly.
Why is the discount rate often referred to as an opportunity cost?
Because corporate investment in a project takes away the stockholders opportunity to invest the dividend in a financial asset.
What is the basic Internal Rate of Return (IRR) investment rule?
Accept if the IRR is greater than the discount rate, reject of the IRR is less than the discount rate.
What is a mutually exclusive investment?
One where you are allowed to accept A or B or reject both A and B, but are not allowed to accept both A and B.
What are incremental cash flows?
Changes in the cash flows that occur as a direct consequence of accepting a project.
What is the difference between synergy and erosion?
The side effect of a newly proposed project may either reduces sales of current products (erosion), or increase cash flows of an existing project (synergy).
When should a company decided to replace a piece of machinery?
When the annual cost of the new machine is less than the annual cost of the old machine.
What is a nominal cash flow?
Actual dollars to be received (or paid out).
What set of books is relevant for capital budgeting, stockholders’ or tax?
Tax books.
What are real options?
Adjustments that a firm can make after a project is accepted.
This document is a snapshot of the assets a firm owns, and how they are financed.
Balance Sheet
This is the proportion of debt relative to equity financing of a firm’s assets.
Leverage
This statement is a combination of balance sheet and income statement.
Cash Flow Statement
These ratios are used to compare a single company’s performance over time and across companies.
Financial Ratios
Name the 5 categories financial ratios are classified under.
Leverage, Liquidity, Asset Use Efficiency, Profitability and Market Values Measures
What ratio is earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) divided by the interest payment?
Times Interest Earned Ratio
This analysis uses ratios to show how firm efficiency and leverage can influence shareholder returns (ROE).
DuPont
What theory states that money available at the present time is worth more than the same amount in the future due to its potential earning capacity.
Time Value of Money (TVM)
What are the two calculations that make up Total Return?
Dividend yield and capital gain.
What is the excess return of the risky asset?
The difference between risky returns and risk-free returns.
What is the equity risk premium?
The average excess return on common stocks.
What is the Sharpe Ratio?
The risk premium of the asset divided by the standard deviation.
What is the geometric average return?
The average compound return per year over a particular period.
What is the arithmetic average return?
The return in an average year over a particular period.
What is the standard error?
The standard deviation of the historical risk premium.
What is the expected return on a portfolio?
The weighted average of the expected returns on the individual securities.
What does the variance of a security measure?
The variability of an individual security’s return. 
What does the covariance measure?
Relationship between two securities.
What is a systematic risk?
Any risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater or lesser degree.
What is an unsystematic risk?
A risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group of assets. 
What does Beta measure?
The responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio.
What is the process of leaving money in the financial market and lending it for another year?
Compounding
What is a finite number of growing cash flows called?
Growing annuity
What project is one whose acceptance or rejection is independent of the acceptance or rejection of other projects?
An independent project
Present Value (PV) of cash flows subsequent to initial investment divided by initial investment is equal to what?
The Profitability Index (PI)
What is a sunk cost?
A cost that has already occurred
What is the change in the price of the stock divided by the initial price?
Capital gain (or loss)
What are the two most common measures of variability or dispersion?
Variance and Standard deviation (variance's square root)
What ratio is calculated as the risk premium of the asset divided by the standard deviation?
The Sharpe ratio
What does CAPM stand for?
Capital Asset Pricing Model
Any risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater or lesser degree is called what?
A systematic risk
Any risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group of assets is called what?
An unsystematic risk
Companies with high fixed costs and low variable costs are generally said to have high what?
Operating leverage
What does WACC stand for?
Weighted Average Cost of Capital
What type of stock has no special preference either in receiving dividends or in bankruptcy?
Common Stock
What is the grant of authority by a shareholder to someone else to vote his/her shares called?
Proxy
What are paid to shareholders and represent a return on the capital directly or indirectly contributed to the corporation by the shareholders?
Dividends
What type of stock has preference over common stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of corporation assets in the event of liquidation?
Preferred stock
Also known as the deed of trust, what is the written agreement between the corporation and its creditors?
An Indenture
What is an unsecured bond for which no specific pledge of property is made?
A debenture
What is the fund that is managed by the bond trustee for the purpose of repaying the bonds?
A sinking fund
What is the type of bond issued in multiple countries but denominated in a single currency, usually the issuer's home currency?
A Eurobond
Unlike Eurobonds, what bonds are issued in a single country and are usually denominated in that country's currency?
Foreign bonds
What is the theory where a firm's capital structure decision involves a trade-off between the tax benefits of debt and the costs of financial distress?
The Trade-Off or Static Trade-Off Theory of capital structure
What is Net Present Value (NPV) plus Net Present Value of Financing (NPVF) side effects?
Adjusted Present Value (APV)
What are the 3 steps to the Flow to Equity (FTE) approach?
Calculating the Levered Cash Flow (LCF), Calculating the discount rate and Valuation
What is it called when a dividend is paid out in shares of stock?
A stock dividend
What is it called when a company divides its current shares of stock into multiple shares?
A stock split.
What is calculated when adding capital expenditures plus dividends?
Cash flow
What is it called when the preliminary prospectus contains bold red letters printed on the cover page?
A red herring
What does IPO stand for?
Initial Public Offering
In a rights offering, what is the price called that existing shareholders are allowed to pay for a share of stock?
Subscription price
What is calculated by dividing the total amount of funds to be raised by the subscription price?
The number of new shares
In regards to securities, what is dilution?
A loss in existing shareholders' value.
Name 3 kinds of dilution.
Dilution of percentage ownership, Dilution of market value and Dilution of book value and earnings per share
What is it called when a company sells an asset it owns to another firm and immediately leases it back?
A sale and leaseback
What option gives the owner the right to buy an asset at a fixed price during a particular period?
A call option
What are those assets that have short lives, such as inventory?
Current Assets
What are those assets that will last a long time, such as buildings?
Fixed Assets
What is debt that does not have to be repaid within one year?
Long-Term Debt
What are obligations of the firm that require a payout of cash within a specified period?
Liabilities
What is the price at which willing buyers and sellers would trade the assets?
Market Value
Revenue minus expenses is equal to?
Income
What does ROA stand for?
Return on Assets
Net Income divided by Total Assets is equal to?
Return on Assets
What does ROE stand for?
Return on Equity
To calculate this ratio, take the Price per share and divide it by Earnings per share.
PE Ratio
According to the Dupont identity, what 3 things is ROE affected by?
Operating efficiency, Asset use efficiency and Financial leverage
What ratio is the total assets to sales?
Capital Intensity Ratio
What is the maximum growth rate that can be achieved with no external financing of any kind (using internal financing only)?
Internal Growth Rate
Profit margin x Total asset turnover x Equity multiplier is equal to?
ROE
What is the sum of the dividend income and the capital gain or loss on the investment?
Total Dollar Return
What is the change in the price of the stock divided by the initial price?
Capital Gain (or loss)
What stock portfolio is based on the Standard & Poor's Composite Index?
Large-Company Common Stocks
What stock portfolio corresponds to the bottom fifth of stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange in which stocks are raned by market value?
Small-Company Common Stocks
What is a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with a 20-year maturities?
Long-term Corporate Bonds
What is based on U.S. government bonds with maturities of 20 years?
Long-term U.S. Government Bonds
What is based on Treasury bills with one-month maturity?
U.S. Treasury Bills
What is found by adding up all of the values and dividing by the total number of values?
The Average or Mean
What is the difference between risky returns and risk-free returns often called?
Excess Return on the Risky Asset
What is the average excess return on common stocks called?
Equity Risk Premium
What is the square root of the variance?
Standard Deviation
What Greek letter is used to represent the standard deviation?
Sigma
What is calculated as the risk premium of the asset divided by the standard deviation?
Sharpe Ratio
What shape is a normal distribution when it is drawn from a large enough sample?
Bell-shaped Curve
What tells you your average compound return per year over a particular period?
Geometric Average
What tells you your return in an average year over a particular period?
Arithmetic Average
What is the weighted average of the expected returns on the individual securities?
Expected Return on a Portfolio
What is the variance of the return on a portfolio with many securities dependent on?
Covariance Between the Individual Securities
What is a risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater or lesser degree?
Systematic Risk
What is a risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group of assets?
Unsystematic Risk
What measures the responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio?
Beta
What is stock that has no special preference either in receiving dividends or in bankruptcy called?
Common Stock
Who controls the corporation through the right to elect the directors?
Shareholders
What type of voting is calculated as the number of shares multiplied by the number of directors to be elected?
Cumulative Voting
In what type of voting are the directors elected one at a time?
Straight Voting
What measures the responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio?
Beta
When using the capital asset pricing model, what is added to the product of beta of the security and the difference between expected return on market and risk-free rate?
Risk-free rate
What type of voting can "freeze out" minority shareholders?
Straight Voting
What tactic makes it more difficult for a minority to elect a director when there is cumulative voting because there are fewer directors to be elected at one time?
Staggering
What tactic makes it less likely that takeover attempts will succeed because it makes it more difficult to vote in a majority of new directors?
Staggering
What is a grant of authority by a shareholder to someone else to vote her shares called?
Proxy
What do we call a situation where an "outside" group of shareholders tries to obtain votes via proxy becasue they are not satisfied with management?
Proxy Fight
What is the ability for stockholders to share proportionally in any new stock sold called?
Preemptive Right
What represents a return on the capital directly or indirectly contributed to the corporation by the shareholders?
Dividends
Where do corporations get the money to pay dividends?
Aftertax profits
What percentage of dividends is taxed for corporations that own stock in other corporations?
30%
Owners of what type of stock usually have no voting privileges?
Preferred Stock
What are preferred dividends that are cumulative and not paid in a particular year carried forward as?
Arrearage
The existence of what effectively creates a final maturity because it means that the entire issue will ultimately be retired?
Sinking Funds
What does TOPrS stand for?
Trust-Originated Preferred Securities
What does MIPS stand for?
Monthly Income Preferred Securities
What does QUIPS stand for?
Quarterly Income Preferred Securities
What is the person or firm making the loan called?
Creditor or Lender
What is the corporation borrowing money called?
Debtor or Borrower
If a firm fails to pay off its debt, who can legally claim the assets of the firm?
Creditors
What is short-term debt sometimes referred to as?
Unfunded Debt
What are debt securities typically called?
Notes, Debentures, or Bonds
Notes typically have issues with an original maturity of how many years?
10 Years or Less
What are longer-term issues called?
Bonds
What is the written agreement between the corporation and its creditors?
Indenture
What is the indenture sometimes referred to as?
Deed of Trust
What is an unsecured bond for which no specific pledge of property is made?
Debenture
What is an account managed by the bond trustee for the purpose of repaying the bonds?
Sinking Fund
What allows the company to repurchase, or "call," part or all of the bond issue at stated prices over a specific period?
Call Provision
What is the difference between the call price and the stated value called?
Call Premium
What is the part of the indenture or loan agreement that limits certain actions a company might otherwise wish to take during the term of the loan?
Protective Covenant
What is a "thou shalt not" type of covenant?
Negative Covenant
What type of covenant specifies an action that the company agrees to take or a condition the company must abide by?
Positive Covenant
What is a bond issued by multiple countries but denominated in a single currency, usually the issuer's home currency?
Eurobond
What is a bond issued in a single country that is usually denominated in that country's currency?
Foreign Bonds
What is the expected earnings to unlevered firm divided by to find the cost of capital for an all-equity firm?
Unlevered Equity
What occurs when ownership of the firm's assets is legally transferred from the stockholders to the bondholders?
Bankruptcy
What kind of costs occur because of conflicts of interest that arise between stockholders and bondholders?
Agency Costs
What types of agreements are incorporated as part of the loan document between stockholders and bondholders?
Protective Covenants
What type of covenant limits or prohibits actions that the company may take?
Negative Covenant
What type of claims can be bought and sold in financial markets?
Marketable Claims
How many times a year do public companies usually pay regular cash dividends?
Four Times a Year
What type of dividend results in no cash leaving the firm, but rather increases the number of shares outstanding?
Stock Dividend
What is it called when a firm may use cash to buy back shares of its stock?
Stock Repurchase
What is the rise in the stock price following the dividend signal called?
Information Content Effect of the Dividend
What type of financial instrument is generally considered to be risk-free?
Treasury instruments.
What type of correlation does a security with a positive beta have with the market?
A positive correlation.
What three factors of a firm determine the beta of a stock?
The cyclical nature of revenues, operating leverage, and financial leverage.
If a project has a different risk from the firm, what discount rate should be used?
The discount rate that correlates with the project’s own risk.
How is the cost of debt determined?
It is the cost of borrowing.
Why is the cost of debt tax-adjusted?
Interest payments can be deducted before paying taxes, but dividends are not tax deductible.
In cumulative voting, how is the number of votes each shareholder can cast typically calculated?
Number of shares (owned or controlled) multiplied by the number of directors to be elected.
What are the two main effects of stagger voting?
It makes it more difficult for a minority shareholder to elect a director when there is cumulative voting and it makes takeover attempts less likely to be successful.
How does preferred stock differ from common stock?
It has preference in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of corporation assets in the event of a liquidation.
What is a commitment?
A commitment establishes a line of credit and allows a firm to borrow up to a predetermined limit.
What is the difference between a conventional bond and a floating-rate bond?
A conventional rate bond has a fixed-dollar obligation, while a floating-rate bond has adjustable payments. 
What is the only way changes in capital structure benefit stockholders?
Only if the value of the firm increases. 
Why does MM Proposition II under no taxes suggest a positive relationship between the expected return on equity and leverage?
Because the risk of equity increases with leverage.
What type of capital structure should managers choose that will be most beneficial to a firm’s stockholders?
One that they believe will have the highest firm value.
What does the MM Proposition I (no taxes) illustrate?
The value of the levered firm is the same as the value of the unlevered firm.
What does the MM Proposition II (no taxes) illustrate?
The expected return on equity is positively related to leverage.  
How does the ownership of the firm’s assets change when a firm goes into bankruptcy?
Ownership is legally transferred from the stockholders to the bondholders.
What are the two types of protective covenants?
Negative covenants and positive covenants. 
Who are the claim holders for marketable claims?
Stockholders and bondholders.
At what point is a firm’s capital structure optimized?
Where the marginal subsidy to debt equals the marginal cost. 
What are the two rules of the pecking-order theory?
The first rule is to use internal financing and the second rule is to issue the safest securities first. 
What is the effect of a stock dividend?
To increase the number of shares that each owner holds. 
What are the two reasons for reverse stock split?
Increase price to meet a stock exchange minimum and to buy out any stockholders who have less than a certain number of shares. 
When are dividends taxed?
Upon payment. 
What is the information content effect of a dividend?
When the rise in stock price follows the dividend signal.
What are the three ways share repurchases typically accomplished?
Open market purchases, tender offer and targeted repurchase. 
What is capital structure?
A firm’s financing proportion of debt and equity.
What is the role of a financial manager?
Make financial decisions and create value based on the firm’s financial statements.
What is a Limited Liability Company (LLC)?
A hybrid of a partnership and corporation in which the owners have limited liability and taxed at personal income rate.
What is a corporation?
A legal entity that has all the legal powers of a natural person except for the right to vote.
What is needed to form a corporation?
Articles of incorporation and bylaws.
What needs to be included in the articles of incorporation?
Name of the corporation, intended life of the corporation, business purpose, number of shares of stock for issuance, rights granted to shareholders, and number of initial board members.
What are bylaws?
Rules used by the corporation to regulate daily business dealings.
Who are stakeholders?
People or businesses that have an interest in the firm’s decisions, such as employees, customers, creditors, and the government.
What is the equivalent to assets on the balance sheet?
Liabilities plus stock holder’s equity.
What does a financial manager need to be aware of when analyzing a balance sheet?
Liquidity, debt versus equity, and value versus cost.
What is the term that refers to the ease at which assets can easily be converted to cash?
Liquidity.
What types of assets are the most liquid?
Current assets, which are assets that will be converted within one year.
Which assets are the least liquid?
Fixed assets.
What are liabilities?
Obligations of the firm that require a cash payment within a specified timeframe.
What is market value?
The price at which buyers and sellers agree to trade.
What is book value?
The historical cost of an asset bought or sold.
What is equivalent to income on the income statement?
Revenue minus expenses.
What is the cash flow generated from business activities including the sale of goods and services?
Operating cash flow.
How do you calculate net working capital?
Current assets minus current liabilities.
What are financial ratios?
Ratios that deal with liquidity and how bills are paid over the short term.
What is financial leverage?
The ability to pay bills over the long term.
What is the equity multiplier?
The amount of which the capital structure is increasing the risk and return.
How is current ratio calculated?
Current assets divided by current liabilities.
What formula can be used to make sure interest payments will be covered?
Times interest earned ratio (EBIT/interest).
What formula can be used to illustrate how much in sales can be generated from a particular asset?
Total asset turnover (sales/assets).
What ratio indicates how much of sales turn into income?
Profit margin (net income/sales).
What are pro forma financials?
Projected financials which can show contradictions in a firm’s financial plan.
What is total asset turnover?
For every dollar in assets and percentage is earned in sales. (Sales/total assets).
What is the plowback ratio?
The ratio of all retained earnings not paid out. (1 minus cash dividends divided by net income).  
What is a payment that is made for every period in an infinite number of periods?
Perpetuity.
What is payback?
The time it takes to receive the value of an investment ignoring the time value of money.
What does payback not take into account?
Time value of money, risk of the project, cash flows after the payback amount has been met.
In what situation can profitability index be useful?
When ranking projects to decide which projects should be accepted based on capital budgeting.
What is not included in incremental cash flows?
Sunk costs.
What costs are not included in capital budgeting?
Allocated costs and marketing costs.
What is capital gain?
The number of shares of stock multiplied by a new given market price.
What is defined as the dividend per year multiplied by the number of shares?
The dividend paid.
Which type of stock will have the highest standard deviation?
Small company stocks.
True stocks differ in what two areas?
The mean and the standard deviation.
What describes the measure of how wide the dispersion in the expected return on stock?
The variance.
What is excess return?
The amount of return that exceeds the risk free rate of return.
What is the investor’s reward for bearing risk?
The Sharpe ratio. (Average return/standard deviation)
What do we use to calculate a future expected return within the next period?
The arithmetic mean.
What does the geometric average calculate?
A holding period’s expected return within a specific time period, such as 5 years.
What is portfolio theory?
Historical returns that can be analyzed to calculate expected returns.
What is the cost of equity capital?
The expected return on the stock.
What is expected return?
The best guess estimate of what the return on stock will be within the next period.
What is covariance?
The analysis of how stocks move together.
What is correlation?
The analysis of how two stocks are related to each other.
What will lower the standard deviation of a portfolio?
Adding assets to the portfolio so long as the assets are not perfectly correlated.
What is the market portfolio?
A portfolio of stocks held by every investor.
What is the main rule for net present value (NPV)?
Accept a project if the net present value is greater than zero.
What is NPV?
The contribution of a project to the firm’s overall value.
What is internal rate of return (IRR)?
The number that considers cash flows to find the return on a project.
What is a sunk cost?
A cost that has already been paid.
Which calculation is the same whether it is calculated as real or nominal numbers?
Net present value (NPV).
What types of decisions can be made to change a stock’s beta?
Changes in industry borrowing.
What is the rate at which cash flows are discounted for risky projects?
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC)
What would the effect be of using weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for an entire firm?
More risky projects would be accepted and more low-risk projects would be rejected.
What is the capital asset pricing model (CAPM)?
The relationship between the expected return on stock and beta.
How do investors calculate CAPM?
The risk free rate plus the beta of a security multiplied by the difference between the expected return on the market and the risk-free rate.
What is beta?
The measure of sensitivity to the market within a portfolio.
If a firm increases their financial leverage what also increases?
Beta
If a firm increases their debt-to-equity ratio what also increases?
Beta
In terms of leverage, does the equity of a levered firm have a higher beta?
Yes, the beta of a levered firm is higher than an unlevered firm.
What is left out of the cost of financing?
Flotation costs.
What does long term financing increase?
Debt-to-equity ratio
What is considered the issuing of debt to buy back equity?
Long term debt financing.
Who has a residual claim on the assets of a firm?
Common stock holders.
What can affect the agency problem?
Voting rights of shareholders.
What are types of voting rights?
Cumulative, straight, and proxy.
What is equity?
Equity is a residual claim.
What does liquidity mean?
Liquidity means how quickly you can sell something without having to discount it.
What is kind of cost is a debt replacement?
Debt replacement is a hidden cost.
How do you calculate operating cash flow?
operating cash flow = earnings before income taxes + depreciation – taxes
How do you calculate the debt to equity ratio?
you divide debt by equity
How do you calculate the equity multiplier?
you divide debt by equity and subtract 1
How do you calculate total asset turnover?
You divide sales by assets
What are pro forma financial statements?
Pro forma financial statements are projected financial statements.
What is the dividend payout ratio?
The dividend payout ratio is the proportion of net income the company pays in dividends
What is a growing perpetuity?
A growing perpetuity is when the cash flows grow at a fixed rate each period.
What is an annuity?
An annuity is a fixed payment for a fixed number of periods.
What is discounted payback?
Discounted payback is when each cash flow is discounted at a risk adjusted rate.
What is a sunk cost?
A sunk cost is a cost we already incurred.
Are sunk costs included in incremental cash flows?
The sunk costs already happened and therefore they are not included.
What is the real rate?
The real rate is a change in what I can buy.
What is the nominal rate?
The nominal rate is a change in the dollars received.
What is the bottom up approach?
operating cash flow = net income + depreciation
What is the top down approach?
operating cash flow = (sales-costs)(1-tax rate) + Depreciation*tax rate 
What is marginal tax rate?
The marginal tax rate is the rate you would pay if you earned one more dollar.
What is the stated interest rate?
The stated interest rate is the annual interest tare, without any compounding.
What is APR?
APR, annual percentage rate, is another name for the stated interest rate.
What is continual compounding?
Continual compounding is compounding that happens every single second.
What is a perpetuity?
A perpetuity is a non-ending stream of constant cash flows.
What is an example of an unending cash flow stream?
Consols, a British bond.
What is a growing perpetuity?
A growing perpetuity is when the cash flows are expected to rise indefinitely.
What is an annuity?
An annuity is a stream of regular fixed payments.
What is an annuity due?
An annuity due is when the annuity is at the beginning of the period, not the end.
What is capital budgeting?
Capital budgeting is the decision making process on whether or not to accept or reject a project.
What are opportunity costs?
Opportunity costs are the costs that are forgone by accepting another project.
What are the two types of side effects of determining incremental cash flows?
erosion and synergy
What is erosion?
Erosion is when a new product hurts or reduces sales of an existing product.
What is synergy?
Synergy is the new projects increase or help the cash flows of the existing projects.
What is net working capital?
Net working capital is the difference between the current assets and current liabilities.
What is nominal cash flow?
Nominal cash flows are the actual dollars that are received or paid.
What is real cash flow?
Real cash flow is the purchasing power of the cash flows.
What is a sensitivity analysis?
A sensitivity analysis shows how sensitive NPV, or another variable, can be to the changing assumptions.
What is a scenario analysis?
A scenario analysis is using different scenarios to minimize a problem.
What is a break-even analysis?
A break-even analysis provides the amount of sales needed to break-even.
What are coupon payments?
Coupon payments are regular interest payments the bondholder receives.
What is the face value of a bond?
The face value is the amount that is to be repaid at the end of the loan term.
Who is paid first, debt holders or equity holders in a corporation?
Debt holders are paid first because equity holders have a residual claim.
What happens to earning when firms leverage up?
Leveraging up magnifies the firms gains and losses.
What is a marginal tax rate?
The marginal tax rate is the amount that a firm will be taxed on the next dollar that they earn.
What is the average tax rate?
The average tax rate of a firm is the total they have paid in taxes divided by their total income.
What is liquidity?
Liquidity means how quickly something can be sold without a large discount.
Is the balance sheet assets in market value or book value?
The balance sheet reports assets at book value.
What is usually a business’s largest non-cash expense?
A business’s largest non-cash expense is usually depreciation.
What is Networking Capital?
Networking Capital is current assets minus current liabilities.
Would buying more inventory using cash affect Networking Capital?
No, because both cash and inventory are current assets so the firm’s total current assets would not change.
What is the formula for Operating Cash Flow?
The formula for Operating Cash Flow is EBIT plus depreciation minus taxes.
What is a main problem with Operating Cash Flow?
Operating Cash Flow ignores large cash outflows known as capital expenditures.  
How do you standardize financial statements?
You can standardize financial statements by common sizing them.
What is common sizing?
When the entire financial statement is stated in percentages.
What does the current ratio tell you about a company?
The current ratio shows if a company has enough current assets to pay current liabilities.
What type of investors would be interest in liquidity ratios?
Short term investors, like commercial paper investors, would be interest in this ratio.
What type of investors would be interested in long-term solvency ratios?
Equity investors would be interested in long-term solvency ratios.
What is the quick ratio formula?
The quick ratio formula is current assets minus inventory, then divided by current liabilities.
What are the asset use efficiency ratios?
The asset use efficiency ratios are total asset turnover and inventory turnover.
What is the formula for total asset turnover?
A general formula for total asset turnover is sales divided by assets.
Are ratios the same at every company?
No, different companies define ratios differently.
When should you use ratio analysis?
Ratios are useful to compare companies overtime or to compare companies in the same industry.
What is enterprise value?
Enterprise value is how much a company is worth in total, not just the firm’s equity.
The Du Pont identity shows that ROE is affected by what?
ROE is affected by operating efficiency, asset use efficiency, and financial leverage.
How is operating efficiency measured in the Du Pont identity?
Operating efficiency is measured by the profit margin ratio.
How is asset use efficiency measured in the Du Pont identity?
Asset use efficiency is measured by the total asset turnover ratio.
How is financial leverage measured in the Du Pont identity?
Financial leverage is measured by the equity multiplier ratio.
What is the internal growth rate?
The internal growth rate is the growth rate the firm can maintain with only internal financing.
What is the sustainable growth rate?
The sustainable growth rate is the maximum growth rate a firm can maintain without increasing financial leverage.  
What is the discount rate?
The discount rate is the required rate of return on a project.
What is Net Present Value?
Net Present Value is the sum of discounted cash flows of a project minus the original investment.
What is a perpetuity?
A perpetuity is a constant stream of cash flows that continues indefinitely. 
What is a growing perpetuity?
A growing perpetuity is a continues stream of cash flows that will grow continuously. 
What is an annuity?
An annuity is a constant stream of cash flows that will last for a set amount of time. 
What is the difference between an annuity due and a regular annuity?
An annuity due has payments that occur at the beginning of the period while a regular annuity has payments at the end of the period.
What is a growing annuity?
A growing annuity is a set number of payments that grows at a continuous rate.
What are key aspects of the NPV method of capital budgeting?
The key aspects are NPV uses cash flow, it uses all cash flows of the project, and discounts cash flow properly. 
What are some of the problems with the payback method?
Problems with the payback method are it does not consider all relevant cash flows, ignores time value of money, and does not take into the risk of the cash flows.  
What are some good aspects the payback method?
The good thing about the payback method is that it is simple and can be done easily for projects of little consequence. 
What are some problems with IRR?
Problems with IRR are multiple solutions with change in sign, losing scale, and still need to find the discount rate which means it is no simpler than NPV.
What is the rule for accepting and rejecting of IRR?
The rule of IRR is if the IRR is greater than the discount rate than accept the project, and vice versa.
What is the formula for the profitability index?
The formula for the profitability index is present value of cash flows after investment divided by the initial investment. 
What is the rule for accepting and rejecting the Profitability Index?
If the PI is greater than 1 then accept the project and vice versa. 
What are some problems with the Profitability Index?
Some problems with the Profitability index is that it loses scale and is just a ratio of NPV.
Would a small or large company be more likely to use the payback method?
A small company would be more likely to use payback due to simplicity.
What are incremental cash flows?
Incremental cash flows are cash flows due directly to the project.
What is a sunk cost?
Sunk cost are cost that have already occurred and should not be considered when evaluating a project.
What is an opportunity cost?
An opportunity cost is the missed cash flow from choosing one project over another.
What does erosion of a product mean?
Erosion of a product is when selling one product hurts the sales of another product.
Does depreciation help protect earnings from taxes?
Yes, depreciation is a tax shield and protects earnings from taxes.
What is the difference between the real rate and nominal rate?
Nominal rate is how much money you will get, while real rate shows how much each of those dollars will actually be able to buy.
How do I decide between investments of unequal lives?
When deciding between investments with unequal lives you should choose the project with the lower equivalent annual cost.
How do I decide to replace a machine?
When deciding whether or not to replace a machine, you should use equivalent annual cost.
What is sensitivity analysis?
Sensitivity analysis determines how sensitive a projects NPV is to its underlying assumptions.
What are real option?
Real options are adjustments that a firm can make after a project is accepted.
Does NPV without real options underestimate or overestimate the true value of a project? 
NPV without real options underestimates the value of a project.
What are the types of real options?
The types of real options are expand, abandon, and timing options.
What does the sharp ratio measure?
The sharp ratio measures reward for bearing a unit of risk.
Can I use the sharp ratio for a single stock?
No, the sharp ratio is only usable for portfolios, not single stocks.
What is a common measure of variability of stocks?
The variance is a common measure of variability.
What is the expected return on a portfolio?
The expected return on a portfolio is the weighted average of the expected returns on the individual securities within the portfolio.
What is systematic risk?
Systematic risk is risk that affects almost all assets.
What is unsystematic risk?
Unsystematic risk is risk that affects a single or small group of assets.
What is proxy voting?
Proxy voting is when a shareholder grants authority to someone else to vote their shares.
What are some characteristics of debt?
Differences between debt and equity are debt holders do not have ownership in a firm, corporation’s payments of interest are tax deductible, and unpaid debt is a liability of the firm. 
Are corporations required to pay dividends?
No, corporations are not required to pay dividends.
Are dividend payments tax deductible?
No, dividends payments are not tax deductible.
What is preferred stock?
Preferred stock is stock that has preference over common stock in payment of dividends and distribution of assets.
What is a debentured bond?
A debentured bond is an unsecured bond that no specific asset was offered as collateral.
What is a call provision?
A call provision allows a firm to repurchase its debt early.
What is a protective covenant?
A protective covenant limits what a company can do during the term of the loan. 
What is par value?
Par value, another name for face value, is the amount to be repaid at the end of the loan term.
How do you calculate the coupon rate?
annual coupon divided by the face value
What is maturity? 
Maturity is the number of years it takes until the face value of the bond is paid back.
What is the interest rate that is required by the market called?
It is called the bond’s yield to maturity, YTM, or the bonds yield for short.
What are some common types of compounding?
Annual, semiannual, quarterly, and more.
What is interest rate risk?
Interest rate risk is the risk from fluctuating interest rates, affecting the holder of the bond.
Who are the two main bond-rating firms?
Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.
How do the bond-rating firms rate credit worthiness?
They rate credit-worthiness by how likely the firm is to default on the loan.
What is the highest rating a firm can have?
AAA or Aaa.
What is the expected return?
The expected return is the return an individual expects a stock to earn.
What is the standard deviation?
Standard deviation is the square root of the stocks variance.
What is systematic risk?
Systematic risk effects all assets.
What is unsystematic risk?
Unsystematic risk effects a single asset.
What is unsystematic risk also called?
Idiosyncratic risk.
What is systematic risk also called?
Market risk.
What is the discount rate also called?
The discount rate can also be called the required rate or the cost of capital.
What three things do we need to know to estimate a firm’s cost of capital?
We need to know the risk-free rate, the market risk premium, and the stock’s beta.
What are the two types of protective covenants?
Negative covenants and positive covenants.
What is a positive covenant?
A positive covenant specifies something the company agrees to or something they must abide by.
What is a negative covenant?
A negative covenant prohibits or limits certain actions that a company can do.
What are marketable claims?
Marketable claims can be bought and sold in financial markets.
Can nonmarketable claims be sold in a financial market?
No, nonmarketable claims cannot be sold in financial markets.
What does paying a cash dividend reduce?
Paying a cash dividend reduces retained earnings and the corporation’s cash.
What is a stock split?
A stock split increases the number of outstanding shares.|
What is a stock repurchase?
A stock repurchase is when a company simply repurchases some of their stock.
What is a stock dividend?
A stock dividend is when a dividend is not paid in cash; it is paid in shares of stock.
What is a prospectus also called and why?
A prospectus is also called a red herring because there are big bold red letters on the cover page.
What is the difference between a competitive offer?
A competitive offer awards the securities to the highest bidder.
What is a negotiated offer?
A negotiated is when the issuing company uses one underwriter. 
Do leases generate agency costs?
Yes, leases do generate agency costs.
What are fixed assets?
Fixed assets are those that will last a long time, such as buildings.
What are current assets?
Current assets are assets that have short lives, such as inventory.
What is capital budgeting?
Capital budgeting is the process of making and managing expenditures on long-lived assets.
Equity shares include what?
Stock certificates
What is capital structure?
Capital structure is the proportions of the firm’s financing from current and long-term debt and equity.
How is net working capital calculated?
Current assets minus current liabilities.
What is the function of a Controller?
The controller handles the accounting function, including taxes, cost and financial accounting, and information systems.
What is the function of a Treasurer?
The Treasurer handles cash flows, manages capital expenditures decisions, and makes financial plans.
A sole proprietorship is owned by how many people?
1
What is the cheapest form of business to form?
Sole Proprietorship
All profits of sole proprietorships are taxed as what?
Individual income
A sole proprietorship has what kind of liability?
A sole proprietorship has unlimited liability.
The life of the sole proprietorship is limited by what?
The life of the sole proprietorship is limited to the life of the sole proprietor.
What are the two categories of partnerships?
The two categories of partnerships are general and limited.
General partners are liable for what percent of the debts of the partnership?
100%
What type of partnership permits the liability of some partners to be limited to the amount of cash each has contributed to the partnership?
Limited Partnership
A general partnership is terminated when what occurs?
A general partner dies or withdraws.
How is income from a partnership taxed?
Income from a partnership is taxed as personal income to the partners.
A corporation is a what?
A corporation is a distinct legal entity.
What are bylaws?
Bylaws are the rules to be used by the corporation to regulate its own existence.
Who do bylaws concern?
Bylaws concern shareholders, directors, and officers.
Who generally controls the corporation’s direction, policies, and activities?
Shareholders generally controls the corporation’s direction, policies, and activities.
What is the life of a corporation?
Unlimited life.
What is the liability limit for shareholders?
Shareholders liability is limited to their investment.
What is a major tax disadvantage of corporations?
A major disadvantage of corporations is double taxation.
The goal of financial management is to what?
The goal of financial management is to maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
The relationship between stockholders and management is called?
An agency relationship.
A conflict of interest between the principal and the agent is a what?
Agency problem.
In response to corporate scandals, such as Enron, Worldcom, Tyco, and Adelphia, congress enacted what act?
Sarbanes-Oxley
Who was created by Sarbox to establish new audit guidelines and ethical standards?
Public Companies Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)
Liabilities + Owner’s Equity = ?
Assets
The ease and quickness with which assets can be converted to cash is what?
Liquidity
Assets that will be turned into cash within a year are?
Current Assets
What is composed of raw materials to be used in production, work in process, and finished goods?
Inventory
What are the least liquid kind of asset?
Fixed Assets
Property, plant, and equipment are examples of what?
Fixed Assets
Obligations that require a payout of cash within a stipulated period is what?
A Liability.
Assets minus liabilities equal ?
Owner’s Equity
The accounting value of a firm’s assets is referred to as?
Book Value
Under GAAP, audited financial statements of firms in the US must carry their fixed assets at what?
Cost
What is the price at which buyers and sellers would trade assets?
Market Value
Revenue minus Expenses equal?
Income
An example of a noncash transaction is what?
Depreciation
Current Assets minus Current Liabilities equal?
Net Working Capital
Earnings before interest plus depreciation minus taxes is known as what?
Operating Cash Flow
EBITDA stands for?
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization.
Current Assets divided by current liabilities equal?
Current Ratio
The Quick Ratio is also known as?
Acid Test
EBIT divided by Interest equals?
Times interest earned ratio
Receivable turnover can be calculated as?
Sales divided by Accounts Receivable
Days’ Sales in Receivables is calculated as?
365 Days divided by Receivables Turnover
What measures how the stockholders fared during the year?
Return on Equity
Net Income divided Total Equity equals?
Return on Equity
These measures are intended to measure how efficiently the firm uses its assets and how efficiently the firm manages its operations.
Profitability Measures
What is the value of a sum after investing over one or more periods?
Compound value
What is the name for interest that is reinvested?
Compound interest
What is total dollar return?
The sum of the dividend income and the capital gain or loss on the investment.
What is the change in the price of a stock divided by the initial price?
Capital Gain
What common stock portfolio is based on the Standard & Poor’s Composite Index?
Large-company common stocks
What stock portfolio corresponds to the bottom fifth of stocks traded on the New York Stock exchange?
Small Company Common Stocks
What is a portfolio of high quality corporate bonds with a 20 year maturity?
Long-Term corporate bonds
Long-Term US Government Bonds how a maturity of how long?
20 years
Standard Deviation is a common measurement of what?
Variability or dispersion
Covariance and correlation measure what?
How two random variables are related.
When a firm has extra cash, it can do what?
It can pay out the cash as a dividend or invest in a project.
What bonds are as close to risk free as possible?
Treasury bills and US Bonds.
Beta of a stock is determined by what characteristics of a firm?
The cyclical nature of the revenues, operating leverage, and financial leverage.
What term describes firms that do well in the expansion phase of the business cycle and do poorly in the contraction phase?
Cyclicality of revenue
Firms with high fixed costs and low variable costs are generally said to have high what?
Operating leverage
Financial leverage refers to a firm that what?
Relies on debt.
What is corporate finance?
To invest in assets and receive an equal amount of raised cash in return.
What is value creation?
Selling your investments to generate a cash return.
What are fixed assets?
Assets that will last a long time; can be tangible or intangible. 
What are current assets?
Assets that will not last a long time; usually inventory that is sold quickly.
What is debt?
Pieces of paper that a firm will issue as a loan agreement.
What are equity shares?
Stock certificates that a firm will sell for financing.
What is a current liability?
Short term debt.
What is capital structure? 
Proportion of financing from current and long-term debt and equity.
What is net working capital?
Current assets minus current liabilities.
What is a sole proprietorship?
A business owned by one person.
What is a partnership?
When two or more people get together to form a business.
What is a general partnership?
Both partners are liable for all debt and share all profit.
What is a limited partnership?
Limits the liability based on the cash provided by each partner.
What is a corporation?
A distinct legal entity. 
What is an LLC?
Hybrid of a partnership and a corporation.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
What is an agency problem?
The possibility of conflict between the agent and the principle.
What are agency costs?
The costs of conflict of interest between management and stockholders.
Who is a stakeholder?
Someone who has a claim on the cash flows of the firm.
What is the balance sheet?
A snapshot of a firm’s accounting value.
What is the accounting equation of the balance sheet?
Assets = Liabilities + Stockholders’ Equity
What is liquidity?
The ease and quickness of converting assets to cash.
What is stockholders’ equity?
Assets – Liabilities 
What is book value?
The accounting value of a firm’s assets.
What is market value?
The price buyers and sellers would agree on.
What is the income statement?
Measures performance over a specific period of time.
What is the accounting equation of income?
Revenue – Expenses = Income
What does EBIT stand for?
Earnings before interest and taxes.
What is depreciation?
The accountant’s estimate of the depletion of equipment from production.
How is the average tax rate calculated?
Your tax bill divided by your taxable income.
What is the marginal tax rate?
Tax percent you would pay if you earned one more dollar.
What is net working capital?
Current assets – Current liabilities
What is the value of the firm in finance?
Its ability to generate financial cash flow.
What is capital spending?
Ending net fixed assets – Beginning net fixed assets + Depreciation
What is cash flow paid to creditors?
Interest paid – Net new borrowing
What is cash flow to stockholders?
Dividends paid – Net new equity raised
What does free cash flow refer to?
Cash that the firm is free to distribute to creditors and stockholders.
What are common-size statements?
One common way to standardize financial statements.
What are financial ratios?
A way to compare and investigate the relationship between financial information.
What is the current ratio?
Current assets divided by Current liabilities.
What is the quick ratio?
Current assets minus Inventory, divided by Current liabilities.
What is the cash ratio?
Cash divided by Current liabilities.
What is the total debt ratio?
Total assets minus Total equity, divided by Total assets.
What is the debt-equity ratio?
Total debt divided by Total equity.
What is the equity multiplier ratio?
Total assets divided by Total equity.
What is the times interest earned ratio?
EBIT divided by Interest.
What is total asset turnover?
Sales divided by Total assets.
What is profit margin?
Net income divided by Sales.
What is EBITDA?
A measure of before-tax operating cash flow.
What is return on assets (ROA)?
Net income divided by Total assets.
What is return on equity (ROE)?
Net income divided by Total equity.
What is earnings per share (EPS)?
Net income divided by Shares outstanding.
What is the price-earnings (PE) ratio?
Price per share divided by Earnings per share.
What is the Market-to-book ratio?
Market value per share divided by Book value per share.
What is the dividend payout ratio?
Cash dividends divided by Net income.
What is the plowback ratio?
Addition to retained earnings divided by Net income.
What is the internal growth rate?
The rate the firm can maintain with internal financing only.
What is the sustainable growth rate?
The maximum rate of growth a firm can maintain without increasing financial leverage.
What is future value?
The value of a sum after investing over one or more periods.
What is present value?
The money you have today.
What is net present value of investment?
Cost of land today + present value of next year’s sales price.
What is compounding?
Continuing to lend money in the financial market.
What is compound interest?
When each interest payment is reinvested.
What is discounting?
Calculating the present value of a future cash flow.
What is the present value factor?
The factor used to calculate the present value of a future cash flow.
What is the stated annual interest rate?
The annual interest rate without consideration of compounding.
What is continuous compounding?
To compound every infinitesimal instant.
What is perpetuity?
A constant stream of cash flows without end.
What is an annuity?
A level stream of regular payments that lasts for a fixed number of periods.
What is growing annuity?
A finite number of growing cash flows.
What is a fixed asset?  
Assets that will last a long time, such as buildings.
What is an example of a tangible asset? 
Machinery and equipment
What is an example of an intangible asset? 
Patents and trademarks
What is a current asset? 
Assets with short lives, such as inventory.
What is a sole proprietorship? 
A business owned by one person
What is a partnership? 
Two or more people who own a business.
What is a general partnership?
All partners agree to provide some fraction of the work and cash and to share the profits and losses.
What is a limited partnership?
This partnership permits the liability of some of the partners to be limited to the amount of cash each has contributed to the partnership.
What is a balance sheet? 
A snapshot of a firm’s accounting value the accountant uses for a particular date, as though the firm stood momentarily still.
What is liquidity? 
This refers to the ease and quickness with which assets can be converted to cash.
What is accounts receivable? 
These are amounts not yet collected from customers for goods or services sold to them.
What is Inventory? 
Inventory is comprised of raw materials to be used in products, work in process, and finished goods.
What are liabilities?
Obligations of the firm that require a payout of cash within a stipulated period.
What is a short run period?
It is the period in which certain equipment, resources, and commitments of the firm are fixed.  
What is your average tax rate?  
Your tax bill divided by your taxable income.
What is net working capital? 
Current assets minus current liabilities
How do you calculate capital spending?
Ending net fixed assets – beginning net fixed assets
What is operating cash flow?
Earnings before interest plus depreciation minus taxes, which measures the cash generated from operations not counting capital spending or working capital requirements.
How do you compute the current ratio? 
Current assets/current liabilities
How do you compute the quick ratio?
Current assets-inventory / current liabilities
How do you compute the cash ratio? 
Cash/current liabilities
How do you compute the total debt ratio? 
Total assets – total equity / total assets.
How do you compute times interest earned ratio? 
EBIT / Interest
How do you compute the inventory turnover? 
Cost of Goods Sold / Inventory
How do you compute the receivables turnover? 
Sales / Accounts Receivable 
How do you compute the total asset turnover? 
Sales/Total assets
How do you compute the profit margin? 
Net income/Sales
How do you compute return on assets? 
Net income/ total assets
How do you compute return on equity? 
Net income / total equity
How do you compute market capitalization? 
Price per share x shares outstanding
What is the use of using the percentage of sales approach? 
The goal is to develop a quick and practical way of generating pro forma statements.
What is another statement for future value (FV)? 
Compound value
What is a finite number of growing cash flows? 
Growing Annuity
What is capital budgeting? 
The decision making process for accepting or rejecting projects.
When do we accept a project while look at the NPV? 
If the NPV is greater than zero
When do we reject a project while looking at the NPV? 
If the NPV is less than zero
What is the first problem with the payback period? 
Timing of cash flows within the payback period
What is the second problem with the payback period? 
Payments after the payback period?
What is the third problem with the payback period? 
Arbitrary standard for payback period.
What is another method that decision makers use instead of the payback method?
Discounted payback method
What does IRR stand for? 
Internal Rate of Return
When do we accept a project while looking at IRR? 
If the IRR is greater than the discount rate
When do we reject a project while looking at IRR? 
If the IRR is less than the discount rate
What’s an independent project? 
One whose acceptance or rejection is independents of the acceptance or rejection of other projects
What is the modified IRR method?  
It handles the multiple IRR problem by combining cash flows only one change in sign remains
When is two or more project mutually exclusive? 
They are mutually exclusive if the firm can accept only one of them.
When calculating NPV what cash flows should only be used? 
Cash flows that are incremental to the project
What is a sunk cost? 
A cost that has already occurred
What is an opportunity cost? 
A cost that a firm takes which forgoes other opportunities for using the assets.
What is erosion? 
Erosion occurs when a new product reduces the sales, and, hence the cash flows of existing products.
What is synergy?
Synergy occurs when a new product increases the cash flows of existing products.
What is net working capital? 
Net working capital is the difference between current assets and current liabilities.
What is the name of the two books that U.S. firms keep? 
Tax books & stockholders’ books
Who is the tax book for? 
The IRS uses this one
What is the stockholders’ book for? 
For the firms annual reports
What is the nominal cash flow? 
Actual dollars to be received or paid out.
What is the real cash flow? 
Cash flow’s purchasing power.
What rate must nominal cash flows be discounted at? 
Nominal rate
What rate must real cash flows be discounted at? 
Real rate
What is the Top-Down approach? 
Starting at the top of the income statement and work our way down to cash flow by subtracting costs, taxes, and other expenses.
What is the Bottom-Up approach? 
Starting at the bottom line (net income) and add back any non-cash deductions such as depreciation.
What is the capital gain or loss? 
Change in price of the stock divided by the initial price.
How do you calculate the average or mean of a frequency distribution? 
Add up all of the values and divide by the total number.
What is the most common measure of variability or dispersion? 
The variance and its square root, the standard deviation.
What is a eurobond?
A bond issued in multiple countries but denominated in a single currency, usually the issuers home country
What is a foreign bond?
A bond issued in a single country and are usually denominated in that countries currency.
What does a put bond allow the holder to do?
It allows the holder to force the issuer to buy the bond back at stated price
What does a CAT bond stand for?
Catastrophe bond
What is an indenture?
An agreement between borrowers and its creditors
What is preferred stock?
Preferred stock has a preference over common stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of corporation assets in the event of liquidation.
What is the expected return?
Return that an individual expects a stock to earn over the next period.
What is a firm's Capital Structure?
The proportion of the firm's financing from current & long-term debt and equity.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
What is an agency problem?
A conflict of interest between the agent and the principle.
What law created the Securities Exchange Commission?
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
What is an efficient capital market?
A market where stock prices fully reflect available information.
What is a weak form efficient market?
A market that fully incorporates the information in past stocks.
What is a semistrong form efficient market?
A market where prices reflect all publicly available information which includes financial statements from the firm along with historical price information.
What is a strong form efficient market?
A market where prices reflect all information both public and private.
What is bubble theory?
The theory that security prices occasionally move to extremes above their actual value.
What is a bearer bond?
A bearer bond is a bond without without a recorded owner which forces the holder of the bond to detach the coupons and send them to the company to receive payment.
What is a call protected bond?
A call protected bond is a bond with a call provision but cannot be called for a certain period of time, during this time the bond is call protected.
What is net working capital?
Net working capital is current assets minus current liabilities
What is the difference between short-term and long-term debt?
Short term debt must be repaid within one year whereas long-term debt does not have to be repaid within one year.
What is capital budgeting?
Capital budgeting is the process of making and managing expenditures on long-lived assets.
What is the responsibility of a treasurer in corporate finance?
A treasurer is responsible for handling a corporation's cash flows, managing capital expenditure decisions, and making financial plans.
What is the responsibility of a controller in corporate finance?
A controller is responsible for handling a corporation's accounting function, including taxes, cost and financial accounting, and information systems.
What is GAAP?
GAAP stands for generally accepted accounting principles which are rules and standards commonly followed in accounting procedures.
What are agency costs?
Agency costs are the costs of the conflict of interest between stockholders and management.
What does it mean when a company goes dark?
Going dark refers to a company delisting their shares from exchanges.
What is the purpose of an income statement?
An income statement is intended to measure the financial performance of a firm over a specified period of time.
What is the marginal tax rate?
The marginal tax rate is the tax percentage you would pay if you earned one more dollar.
What is a flat-rate tax?
A flat-rate tax means there is one tax rate for all income levels, which also means the marginal tax rate is the same for all incomes.
What is operating cash flow?
Operating cash flow is earnings before interest plus depreciation minus taxes. Operating cash flow measures the cash generated from operations not counting capitalspending or work capital requirements.
What are common-size statements?
Common-Size statements are financial documents that adjust for the difference in size, currency, or time to simplify the comparison of companies.
What is market capitalization?
Market capitalization is the firms outstanding shares times it's market price per share.
What is net present value?
Net present value is the current value of future cash flows minus the current value of the cost of the investment.
What is a perpetuity?
A perpetuity is a constant stream of cash flows that never ends.
What is a growing perpetuity?
A growing perpetuity is a constant stream of cash flows that never ends and continues to increase indefinitely.
What is an annuity due?
An annuity due level stream of payments that lasts for a fixed number of periods and begins immediately at the beginning of the periods.
What is a growing annuity?
A growing annuity is a finite number of gorwing cash flows over a fixed number of periods.
What are call provisions?
A call provision allows the company to repurchase part or all of a bond issue at stated prices over a specific period.
What is capital budgeting?
Capital budgeting is the decision-making process for accepting and rejecting projects.
What is the basic IRR rule?
The basic IRR rule states that if IRR is greater than the discount rate a project should be accepted and if it is less then the project should be rejected.
What is an independent project?
An independent project is a project where acceptance or rejection is independent of the acceptance or rejection of other projects.
What is a mutually exclusive investment?
Any pair or collection of investments where only one can be selected and by selecting one the others cannot be accepted.
What are opportunity costs?
This is when a firm forgoes other opportunities by taking on another opportunity and loses any potential revenue that could have been received from alternate projects.
What is financial erosion?
Erosion is a side effect that occurs when a new product reduces the sales and thus the cash flows of existing products.
What is financial synergy?
Synergy is a side effect that occurs when a new project increases the cash flows of existing projects.
What is class B stock?
Class B stock is stock that is not publicly traded and is assigned may be assigned a stronger or weaker percentage of voting power.
What is a deed of trust?
This is a written agreement between the boorower and its creditors, also known as an indenture.
What is sensitivity analysis?
A method for examining how responsive a particular calculation is to changed in underlying assumptions, this is also known as what-if analysis or bop.
What is scenario analysis?
A method that examines a number of different likely scenarios, where each scenario involves a confluence of factors.
What is break-even analysis?
A formula that determines the sales needed to break even.
What is a bond coupon?
A bond coupon is a constant, regularly paid interest payment from a bond.
What is interest rate risk?
The risk that arises for bond owners from fluctuating interest rates.
What is a bond's current yield?
A bond's current yield is a bond's annual coupon divided by its price.
What is a junk bond?
A junk bond is the lowest rating a bond can be assigned by a rating agency based upon a variety of factors.
What is the largest securities market in the world?
The U.S. Treasury market.
What does Moody's and Standard & Poor's do?
They assign bonds ratings for investment purposes.
What is the Trade Report and Compliance Engine?
A channel where corporate bond dealers are required to report trade information.
What is the clean price?
A bond price that is net of accrued interest, this means that accrued interest is subtracted to arrive at a quoted price.
What is the dirty price?
The price actually paid for a bond that includes accrued interest that is normally deducted from a quoted price.
What is an inflation premium?
This is a higher nominal rate that is charged due to the the anticipation that future inflation erodes the value of dollars that will be returned on a loan.
What is an over-the-counter market?
A securities market that is comprised primarily by dealers who buy and sell securities for their own purposes.
What is an ECN?
An electronic communication network which is a web site that allows investors to trade directly with one another.
What are flotation costs?
Costs incurred by the firm when projects are funded by stocks and bonds.
What is a negative covenant?
A negative covenant restricts or prevents actions that a company may place on a bond.
What is a positive covenant?
A positive covenant outlines or forces a company to take a designated action in regard to the bond issued.
What is a reverse stock split?
A reverse stock split is when a company consolidates stock shares, such as four shares of stock becoming one.
What is a round lot?
A round lot refers to the common security trading unit of 100 shares.
What is an odd lot?
An odd lot refers to securities being purchased in units of less than 100 shares.
What is a registration statement?
A registration statement is a document filed with the SEC that includes financial information and history, along with details of the existing business, proposed financing, and plans for the future. The statement is required for public issues of securities with limited exceptions.
What is an unseasoned new issue?
This is an IPO, or initial public offering, which is the first public equity issue made by a company.
What is a seasoned new issue?
This is a new issue where an IPO has already taken place.
What is a dutch auction?
A dutch auction is when an underwriter does not set a fixed prices for shares of a security to be shared, rather investors bid at auctionfor the shares.
What is a green shoe provision?
A green shoe provision allows members of a securities underwriting group to purchase additional shares at an offering price.
What is a rights offering?
An issue of common stock offered only to current stockholders.
What is a subscription price?
The price current shareholders are permitted to pay for a share of stock during a rights offering.
What is a shelf registration?
A permission given to a corporation to register an offering that it reasonably expects to sell within the next two years inteded to simplify the procedure for issuing securities.
What are the stages of venture capital financing?
seed money is the first stage followed by start-up, first-round financing, secound-round financing, third-round financing, and fourth-round financing.
What is a leveraged lease?
A three-sided arrangement among the lessee, lessor, and lenders.
What is conversion value?
This is what bonds would be worth if they were immediately converted into common stock at current prices.
What is a forced conversion?
This is when the conversion value is greater than the call price.
What is hedging?
Hedging is when a firm reduces its risk exposure with the use of derivatives.
What are swaps?
Swaps are arrangements between two counter-parties to exchange cash flows over time.
What are shortage costs?
These are costs that decline with increases in the level of investment in current assets.
What are carrying costs?
These are costs that increase with the level of investments in current assets.
What is the difference between a call and put option?
A call owner has the right to buy, whereas the put owner has the right to sell.
How are you?
I am a finance only chatbot.
What color is the sky?
I am a finance only chatbot.
What is stock?
Stock is ownership in a corporation, and so has a residual claim on cash flow.
What is Quantitative Easing?
Federal Reserve open market purchases of various assets, which creates US dollars.
What are Eurodollars?
Dollar-denominated deposits abroad.
What is the euro?
The currency of the European Monetary Union.
What is the foremost reason for currency markets?
To facilitate international trade.
How are futures different from forwards?
Futures are standardized and traded on exchange.
What is the balance sheet identity?
Assets are defined as the sum of liabilities and stockholders' equity.
What does the balance sheet measure?
How a firm finances its assets.
Does the balance sheet measure over time?
No, the balance sheet is a snapshot in time.
What is a derivative?
A contract with a payoff dependent on some other asset or event.
What is a forward contract?
An agreement to buy or sell a specified quantity of something for a set price on a set date.
What is net income?
The profit of the firm which is available to shareholders.
What happens to net income?
It is either retained or paid as dividends.
What is operating cash flow?
It is EBIT plus Depreciation minus taxes.
What is an example of a non-cash expense?
Depreciation.
How do you calculate a stock's dividend yield?
Annualized dividends divided by the stock price.
What is the profit margin?
Net income divided by sales.
What does the profit margin measure?
A company's revenue and expenses, also known as its profitability.
What are agency costs?
Costs due to management not acting in shareholder interests.
What is the agency problem?
The idea that management may not act in shareholder interests.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize shareholder wealth.
What does capital structure mean?
The particular mix of debt and equity used to finance a firm's assets.
What is the capital stack?
It is another term for capital structure.
What is an arbitrage?
Loosely, it is earning a positive amount of money with no investment and no possibility of loss.
What is liquidity?
The ability to sell an asset quickly without dropping its price.
What causes the agency problem?
The separation of corporate ownership and control.
What is the differene between an American and European option?
The European option can only be exercised at expiration, whereas the American can be exercised at expiration or anytime prior.
What is another term for a derivative?
A contingent claim.
What programming languages are often used in finance?
The most common are python, C++, and R.
How many stock exchanges are there?
There are about 18 exchanges, though an order may be executed on one of the numerous off-exchange venues.
What is geometric Brownian motion?
A stochastic differential equation commonly used to model the change in a stock's price.
What is the Federal Reserve?
The monetary policy authority in the US.  The Fed also has other regulatory and research responsibilities.
What is money?
Anything that serves as a medium of exchange and store of value.
What does the term de novo mean?
It is a new bank.
How would you define liquidity?
The ability to sell an asset quickly without dropping its price.
What is the VIX?
It is a volatility index.
Can you trade the VIX?
Yes there are futures and option contracts on the VIX index.
What is a market order?
An order which specifies the number of shares to trade, but not the price.
What is a market buy order?
An order to buy a specified number of shares at whatever the best price is.
What is a market sell order?
An order to sell a specified number of shares at whatever the best price is.
What is a limit order?
An order which specifies both the number of shares to trade, and the price to trade them.
What is a limit buy order?
An order which specifies both the number of shares to buy, and the price to buy them.
What is a limit sell order?
An order which specifies both the number of shares to sell, and the price to sell them.
When would you use a limit order?
What market prices are changing rapidly, or there is little liquidity.
When would you use a market order?
When trading highly liquid stocks in stable markets.
What is a stop order?
An order to exit a position if you are losing a certain amount of money.
When do you use a stop buy order?
To place a stop on a short position.
When do you use a stop sell order?
To place a stop on a long position.
What is a stop limit order?
A stop order with a specific exit price.
Is using a stop limit order a good idea?
No, you may never exit your position.
What is the one true text editor?
Emacs is the one true editor.
Is vim a good text editor?
Yes, it is second only to emacs.
What is the ticker for crude oil on the NYMEX?
It is CL.
What text editor are you using right now?
I am using emacs.
Where is the delivery point for CL?
It is in Cushing Oklahoma.
What grade of crude oil is CL?
It is light and sweet crude.
For how many barrels is the CL contract?
For 1000 barrels.
How many gallons in a barrel?
There are 42 gallons in a barrel.
What is the ticker for natural gas on the NYMEX?
It is NG.
What is the delivery point for NG?
The delivery point is the Henry Hub in Louisiana.
How large is the NG contract on the NYMEX?
It is for 10000 MMBtu.
What are the delivery months for CL.
CL has a contract delivered every month. 
What are the delivery months for NG.
NG has a contract delivered every month.
What is the ticker for the soybeans contract on the CBOT?
The ticker is ZS.
What does NYMEX stand for?
The New York Mercantile Exchange.
What does CBOT stand for?
The Chicago Board of Trade.
What does CBOE stand for?
The Chicago Board Options Exchange.
What is the crush spread?
It is a trade around the soybean refining margin.
What do you trade in the crush spread?
You trade soybeans, soymeal, and soy oil.
What are soybeans refined to?
Soybeans are refined into soymeal and soy oil.
What is crude oil refined to?
Crude oil is refined into gasoline and heating oil.
What is the crack spread?
It is a trade around the crude oil refining margin.
What do you trade in the crack spread?
You trade crude oil, gasoline, and heating oil.
On what exchange are soybeans traded?
They are traded on the CBOT.
What is the FIX/FAST Protocol?
It is a protocol to communicate with a stock or futures exchange.
When do you use a protecting put spread?
When you want to limit your downside on a long stock position.
When might you use a covered call spread?
To earn extra income from owning a stock.
What does the owner of a put option have?
The right to sell the stock at a specified price on or before expiration.
What is the implication of interest rate parity?
That each currency has only one risk-free rate.
What is the face value of US Treasury bond?
The face value is $1000.
What is stock?
Stock represents equity in a company.
What is equity?
Equity is ownership and a proportional residual claim on income.
What does ETF stand for?
It stands for Exchange Traded Fund.
What is the maturity for a US Treasury note?
The maturity is between one and ten years.
What is the maturity for a US Treasury bill?
The maturity is less than one year.
What is the maturity for a US Treasury bond?
The maturity is greater than ten years.
What is a debt security?
It is a promise to repay an amount loaned according to some schedule.
What is a zero coupon bond?
A bond which pays no coupons and is sold at a discount from par.
How often do US Treasury bonds pay interest?
They pay interest semiannually.
What does CEO stand for?
CEO stands for Chief Executive Officer.
Who oversees management on behalf of a company's shareholders?
The Board of Directors.
What is a drawback of operating a sole proprietorship?
There is unlimited liability for the owner.
What is a sole proprietorship?
A business owned and operated by an individual.
What is a benefit of the corporate form?
Limited liability for the owners.
What are some drawbacks of being a corporation?
Double taxation and the agency problem.
What currency is used in the United Kingdom?
The British pound.
What currency is used in Japan?
The Japanese yen.
What is the financial capital of the United States.
The financial capital is New York City.
What is the financial capital of the United Kingdom.
The financial capital is London.
What is the carry trade?
Borrowing in a low interest rate currency and lending in a high interest rate currency.
What do markets do?
They aggregate information and organize society.
Will markets work in all cases?
No, in many cases markets will fail.
What is a reason for market failure?
One reason is if there is excessive information asymmetry.
What roles do speculators play in financial markets?
They provide liquidity and assist in aggregating information into prices.
What is a benefit of investments?
Investments allow people to optimally time their consumption.
How does a company get the money to buy assets?
By selling equity and debt.
What is the value of equity?
The present value of all expected future dividends discounted at a risk-appropriate rate.
What is the value of debt?
The present value of all interest and principal payments discounted at a risk-appropriate rate.
What is a common non-cash deduction on the income statement?
Depreciation is a common non-cash deduction.
What is another non-cash deduction.
Amortization is another.
Why may you want to trade volatility indexes?
In order to hedge option portfolios.
How do we hedge out the changes in a stock's price from options on that stock?
We use the delta hedging procedure.
What does the Greek Rho measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the interest rate.
What does the Greek delta measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the stock price.
What does the Greek Vega measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the stock's volatility.
Is Vega a Greek letter?
Actually no.
What does the Greek theta measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the risk free rate.
What does the Greek Gamma measure?
The sensitivity of the option's delta to changes in the stock's price.
What is the practical implication of a large gamma value?
It means you have to delta hedge more often.
Does the Black-Scholes option pricing model allow volatility to change?
No, it assumes volatility is constant.
How is the weather?
I am a finance only assistant.
What are you?
A finance assistant.
How can we create option pricing models which allow for changing volatility?
If we can trade volatility, then we can use the replication approach.
What day is today?
I only answer finance questions.
What is the text editor of the future?
Emacs.
If the discount rate increases, then what happens to present values?
Present values decline.
If the discount rate increases, then what happens to future values?
Future values increase.
As time increases, what happens to the discount rate required to make some present value equal to some future value?
The discount rate declines.
What are some synonyms for discount rate?
Some synonyms are interest rate or required return.
What is an annuity?
A contract which pays a fixed amount, every period, for a fixed number of periods.
What is an perpetuity?
A contract which pays a fixed amount, every period, for an infinite number of periods.
What is the present value of a perpetuity?
It is the payment per period divided by the rate per period.
What is a repo?
It is a repurchase agreement.
How does a repo work?
The party entering the repo sells an asset with an agreement to repurchase it in the future.
What is the interest payment in a repo?
It is the difference in the sales and purchase prices.
Is a repo effectively a collateralized loan?
Yes, a repo is a short term loan with collateral.
What are some money market securities?
Some examples are repos, commercial paper, Treasury bills, and bankers' acceptances.
What does LIBOR stand for?
It stands for the London Interbank Offer Rate.
Who lends you the money to buy on margin?
It is a loan made to you by your broker.
Why do brokers offer margin?
They charge you interest on the loan.
What is a margin call?
When your margin percent falls below a certain level you have to add cash or your broker will close your position.
Is the margin loan safe for your broker?
Yes, the collateral is the stock.
What is quantitative easing?
The Federal Reserve buys financial assets to increase the money supply.
What type of risk does diversification reduce?
Diversification reduces market risk.
How long have options been traded?
Options have been traded for hundreds of years.
How long have futures been traded?
Futures have been traded for thousands of years.
What are STRIPs?
Zero coupon bonds created from Treasury securities.
What does NPV stand for?
It stands for Net Present Value.
Are the terms of a call option adjusted for a cash dividend?
No the terms are not adjusted.
What is Apple Inc's ticker symbol.
It is AAPL.
What is Nvidia's ticker symbol.
It is NVDA.
What is Exxon's ticker symbol.
It is XOM.
What is Microsoft's ticker symbol.
It is MSFT.
What is Tesla's ticker symbol.
It is TSLA.
What is Ford's ticker symbol.
It is F.
What is AMD's ticker symbol.
It is AMD.
What are sector funds?
Stock or bond funds which invest in a particular sector of the economy.
What type of risk does diversification reduce?
Diversification reduces systematic risk.
What is the goal of financial management?
The goal of financial management is to maximize shareholder wealth.
Simply put, what is a bond?
A bond is a promise to pay interest, and repay principal, according to some set schedule.
How do you define money?
Money is a medium of exchange and a store of value.
What is a liquid asset?
An asset which you can quickly sell without discounting its value.
What does writing an option mean?
Writing an option is another way of saying selling the option.
How to you calculate operating cash flow?
Operating cash flow is EBIT plus depreciation minus taxes.
What is the agency problem?
The problem that management may not act in shareholder interests.
What is a benefit of the corporate form?
Shareholders have limited liability for corporate debts.
Is the agency problem present in sole proprietorships?
No, the owner and management are the same person.
What is equity?
Ownership and a residual claim on firm income.
What is the DuPont Identity?
The product of profit margin, total asset turnover, and the equity multiplier.
When do you buy a straddle option spread?
When you expect the underlying will be more volatile than the markets expects.
When do you sell a straddle option spread?
When you expect the underlying will be less volatile than the markets expects.
When do you buy a bull call option spread?
When you expect the underlying to increase prior to expiration.
When do you sell a bull call option spread?
When you expect the underlying to not increase prior to expiration.
What is a callable bond?
It is equivalent to buying a bond and selling the issuing company a call option on the bond.
What is the ticker symbol for Delta Airlines?
The ticker is DAL.
What is the ticker symbol for AT&T?
The ticker is T.
What is the ticker symbol for Verizon?
The ticker is VZ.
What is the ticker symbol for Caterpillar?
The ticker is CAT.
What is the ticker symbol for Tesla?
The ticker is TSLA.
What is the ticker symbol for Devon Energy?
The ticker is DVN.
What does an asset's beta coefficient measure?
The amount of systematic risk in the asset.
What is the ticker symbol for Microsoft?
The ticker is MSFT.
What R package allows downloading stock data from Yahoo finance?
The quantmod R package.
What R package allows downloading energy data from the EIA?
The EIAdata R package.
What python library provides a dataframe data structure?
The pandas library.
What python library provides linear algebra methods?
The numpy library.
Is the yield curve the same as the term structure of interest rates?
No, they are slightly different.
What is the difference between the yield curve and the term structure of interest rates?
The yield curve is constructed from coupon bonds wheres the term structure is from zero coupon bonds.
Is a significant amount of stock trading off-exchange?
Yes.
What are lit stock exchanges?
Stock exchanges where you can observe the trading.
What are dark stock exchanges?
Stock Exchanges where you cannot observe the trading.
What measures default risk on a bond?
The credit rating measures default risk.
What types of risk does a bond have?
A bond has default, interest rate, and liquidity risk.
What are the components of the risk-free rate for a given maturity?
The inflation rate, the real interest rate, and the interest rate risk premium.
What city is the main financial center in the USA?
The main financial center is New York City.
Is an option's payoff a nonlinear function of the underlying?
Yes, the relationship is nonlinear.
What is a puttable bond?
A bond where the owner can sell it back to the company at a set price.
What is a Catastrophe bond?
A bond where the issuer stop paying interest and principal if some event occurs.
Is the diversification benefit larger with higher, or lower, asset correlations?
Does the CAPM assume asset returns follow the normal distribution?
It assumes either the normal distribution or investors have quadratic utility.
What does ETF stand for?
ETF stands for Exchange Traded Fund.
What is an ETF?
An ETF is an open-end fund which generally passively tracks an index.
What does the SPY ETF track?
The SPY ETF passively tracks the S&P 500 index.
Why do firms issue financial statements?
They are required in bond indentures and to list on stock exchanges.
What is asymmetric information?
When one person has more information than another.
What are current assets?
Assets which will become cash in less than a year.
What are current liabilities?
Liabilities which must be paid in less than a year.
What is a repo?
Repo is short for a repurchase agreement.
What is a repurchase agreement?
It is an asset sale with agreement to repurchase; in effect a collateralized loan.
What is commercial paper?
Unsecured corporate debt with a maturity less than 270 days.
How do you buy a protective put spread?
But the stock and buy a put option with a lower strike price.
What is the point of a protective put spread?
To limit your potential losses when owning a stock.
What does the FOMC stand for?
It stands for the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee.
How to you buy a covered call position?
You buy the stock and sell a call option with a higher strike price.
How do you buy a straddle options spread?
You buy both a call and put option with the same strike and maturity.
How do you sell a straddle options spread?
You sell both a call and put option with the same strike and maturity.
What do bond credit ratings measure?
Bond credit ratings measure the amount of default risk in the bond.
How do you calculate return on equity?
Return on equity is net income divided by stockholders' equity.
How do you calculate return on assets?
Return on assets is net income divided by total assets.
How do you calculate the DuPont Identity?
The DuPont Identity is the product of profit margin, total asset turnover, and the equity multiplier.
What does NPV stand for?
NPV stand for Net Present Value.
What does IRR stand for?
IRR stand for Internal Rate of Return.
What is the IRR?
The discount rate such that the NPV is equal to zero.
What is the ticker symbol for Pinterest?
The ticker symbol is PINS.
Using NPV, when do you accept the project?
You accept the project when the NPV is greater than zero.
Using IRR, when do you accept the project?
You accept the project when the IRR is greater than the threshold rate.
What does OAS stand for?
OAS stands for option-adjusted spread.
What does CMO stand for?
CMO stands for Collateralized Mortgage Obligation.
If you submit a market buy order will you buy at the bid or ask?
You will buy at the ask.
What does YTM stand for?
YTM stands for the yield-to-maturity.
How do you calculate a bond's current yield?
Divide the bond's annual coupon interest by the bond's price.
What does APR stand for?
APR stands for annual percentage rate.
How to you calculate an APR?
You multiple the rate per period by the number of periods in a year.
What does EAR stand for?
EAR stands for effective annual rate?
How does a bank immunize its bond portfolio?
It matches the duration and amount of its assets and liabilities.
What effect does immunization have on a bank's portfolio?
The value of the bank's portfolio is not affected by changes in interest rates.
What are STRIPs?
Zero coupon bonds made from US Treasury securities.
What does CAPM stand for?
CAPM stands for the capital asset pricing model.
In what do Venture Capitalists specialize?
In making equity investments in start-up firms.
Why do we trade volatility products such as the VIX?
We trade them in order to hedge option portfolios.
How do you calculate a firm's return on equity?
Return on equity is net income divided by stockholders' equity.
How do you calculate a firm's return on assets?
Return on equity is net income divided by assets.
What is the DuPont Identity?
The DuPont Identity decomposes return on equity into the product of the profit margin, total asset turnover, and the equity multiplier.
What is a benefit of issuing debt for a firm?
The interest payments are tax deductible.
What government agency regulates US stock trading?
The Securities and Exchange Commission.
What does SEC stand for?
The Securities and Exchange Commission.
What government agency regulates commodities futures trading in the US?
The Commodities Futures Trading Commission.
What is the ticker symbol for Crude Oil on the NYMEX?
The ticker is CL.
What does NYMEX stand for?
NYMEX stands for the New York Mercantile Exchange.
What is the ticker symbol for Natural Gas on the NYMEX?
The ticker is NG.
What does LIBOR stand for?
LIBOR stands for the London Interbank Offer Rate.
What is bond seniority?
It is the order of payment in the case of default.
What is a pairs trade?
It is a bet on the relative performance of two assets.
What is deposit insurance?
The FDIC charges a fraction on deposits and in return insures some deposits against bank failure.
Why are returns often assumed to be normally distributed in finance?
Primarily because normal distributions are easy to add and multiply with other normal distributions.
How do you calculate a firm's profit margin?
Profit margin is net income divided by sales.
How do you calculate a firm's current ratio?
The current ratio is current assets divided by current liabilities.
How do you calculate a firm's quick ratio?
The quick ratio is current assets minus inventory, then divided by current liabilities.
How do you calculate a firm's equity multiplier?
The equity multiplier is one plus the debt to equity ratio.
How do you calculate a firm's times-interest-earned ratio?
The times-interest-earned ratio is EBIT divided by interest.
What does EBIT stand for?
EBIT stands for earnings before interest and taxes. 
How do you calculate inventory turnover?
Inventory turnover is cost of goods sold divided by inventory.
What does COGS stand for?
COGS stands for cost of goods sold.
What does SG&A stand for?
SG&A stands for selling, general, and administrative expenses.
What does EVA stand for?
EVA stand for enterprise value added.
Where does net income go?
Net income goes to either retained earnings or is paid as dividends.
If the discount rate rises what happens to present values?
Present values decline.
If the discount rate rises what happens to future values?
Future values increase.
If the discount rate decreases what happens to present values?
Present values increase.
If the discount rate decreases what happens to future values?
Future values decrease.
How is a warrant different from a call option?
When a warrant is exercised new stock is issued by the company.
How is a collateralized loan similar to a put option?
The borrower can choose to not pay, and put the collateral to the lender.
What is the only type of cash flows do we consider when capital budgeting?
We only consider incremental cash flows.
Are sunk costs incremental cash flows?
No, sunk costs must be paid regardless.
How do you calculate inventory turnover?
Inventory turnover is COGS divided by inventory.
How do you calculate the cash coverage ratio?
The cash coverage ratio is the sum of EBIT and Depreciation divided by Interest.
How do you calculate the times interest earned ratio?
The times interest earned ratio is EBIT divided by interest.
How do you calculate the quick ratio?
The quick ratio is current assets, less inventory, divided by current liabilities.
How do you calculate the cash ratio?
The cash ratio is cash divided by current liabilities.
How do you calculate the plowback ratio?
The plowback ratio is retained earnings divided by net income.
How do you calculate the market risk premium?
The market risk premium is the expected return on the market minus the risk free rate.
What is the sustainable growth rate?
The maximum rate at which a firm can grow without changing its capital structure.
What is the internal growth rate?
The maximum rate at which a firm can grow using only retained earnings.
How do you calculate the current ratio?
The current ratio is current assets divided by current liabilities.
What type of investors focus on investing in early stage businesses?
Venture capitalists invest in early stage businesses.
How do you calculate total asset turnover?
Total asset turnover is sales divided by assets.
All else constant, if interest rates increase what will happen to stock prices?
Stock prices will decline.
All else constant, if interest rates increase what will happen to bond prices?
Bond prices will decline.
All else constant, if interest rates increase what will happen to present values?
Present values will decline.
When does a bond trade at a discount to par?
When the bond's yield-to-maturity is greater than its coupon rate.
When does a bond trade at a premium to par?
When the bond's yield-to-maturity is less than its coupon rate.
When does a bond trade at par?
When the bond's yield-to-maturity is equal to its coupon rate.
Do you accept or reject the project if the NPV is greater than $0?
You accept the project.
Should you ever use the payback decision rule?
Only for very small capital budgeting decisions.
Does the payback decision rule take into account the risk of the cash flows?
No, it does not.
Are strategic options an important component of capital budgeting analyses.
Typically, yes.
What is cumulative preferred stock?
Preferred stock where all past dividends must be paid before common stockholders receive a dividend.
What is non-cumulative preferred stock?
Preferred stock where only the latest dividend must be paid before common stockholders receive a dividend.
What is a general-obligation municipal bond?
A municipal bond backed by the general taxing power of the issuer.
What is a revenue municipal bond?
A municipal bond backed by the specific project it funded.
What is a synthetic CDO?
A CDO created through a structure of CDS.
What does CDS stand for?
CDS stands for Credit Default Swap.
How do you calculate a stock's price-to-earnings ratio?
If EPS is positive, it is market price per share divided by EPS.
What does EPS stand for?
EPS stands for Earnings per Share.
Does company have to pay dividends?
No, a company has no obligation to pay dividends.
What is the crush spread?
The refining margin on soybeans.
What is the functional relationship between asset volatility and time?
Volatility increases at the square root of the time elapsed.
Which editor is better, emacs or vim?
Definitely emacs.
What are the most used programming languages in finance?
The most used languages are C++, python, and R.
Why do we trade volatility.
Besides speculation, we trade volatility to hedge option portfolios.
Where will a market buy order be executed?
At the ask.
Where will a market sell order be executed?
At the bid.
Is a limit order guaranteed to be executed?
No, it may sit in the orderbook indefinitely.
What is emacs?
It is an extensible text editor; in essence an emacs lisp evaluation environment.
When is the stock market open?
From 9:30am to 4:00pm eastern time on weekdays.
What does SIPC stand for?
The Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
What does SIPC do?
It insures investor loss against the failure of their brokerage firm.
Does SIPC insure everything in the investor's portfolio?
No, it does not cover funds used to trade foreign exchange.
What does API stand for?
API stands for Application Programming Interface.
What does EVA stand for?
EVA stand for Economic Value Added.
What is Economic Value Added?
The dollar value that a firm earns less its opportunity cost.
What is the short rate?
The interest rate for borrowing over the next instant.
What is a differential equation?
An equation which expresses the relationship between variables and their derivatives.
What is a stochastic differential equation.
A differential equation which incorporates the derivative of a random process.
What do we use stochastic differential equations for in finance?
In continuous time, we use them to describe stock prices and other processes.
When will a stop sell order be executed?
When a stock's ask price falls to the stop price.
When will a stop buy order be executed?
When a stock's bid price increases to the stop price.
When do you use a stop order?
To get out of a losing position, or to enter a momentum trade.
What is the difference between a stop and stop limit order?
When triggered, a stop order sends a market order to the exchange, whereas a stop limit sends a limit order.
What is the danger in a stop limit order?
If the limit price is not hit, you won't get our of your losing trade.
What is the ticker symbol for Pfizer?
Pfizer's ticker symbol is PFE.
Are there types of orders other than market, limit, and stop?
Yes, there are many others.
How do you buy a bull call spread?
You buy a call option and sell a higher strike call option with the same underlying and maturity.
If you own a bull call spread do you want the underlying to increase or decrease?
You want it to increase.
What does CFO stand for?
CFO stands for Chief Financial Officer.
What does CEO stand for?
CEO stands for Chief Executive Officer.
If you own a bear call spread do you want the underlying to increase or decrease?
You want it to decrease.
How do you buy a bear call spread?
You buy a call option and sell a lower strike call option with the same underlying and maturity.
How do you buy a bear put spread?
You buy a put option and sell a lower strike put option with the same underlying and maturity.
How do you buy a bull put spread?
You buy a put option and sell a higher strike put option with the same underlying and maturity.
Into what are soybeans refined?
Soybeans are refined into soy meal and soy oil.
How does the Federal Reserve create money?
The Fed buys assets, thereby increasing the cash balance in the sellers account, and note cash can't decrease in their own account.
Is the Federal Reserve part of the US government?
No, though the government has some appointment and oversight authority.
What does owning an asset mean?
You have control over the asset and have the residual claim on income generated by the asset.
What does the beta coefficient measure?
The beta coefficient measures the amount of systematic risk in the asset.
What is the term for when the Federal Reserve buys Treasury debt?
The term is monetizing the debt.
When the Federal Reserve buys Treasury debt, is money created?
Yes, new money is created and the money supply increases.
Which Federal Reserve District Bank handles open market operations?
The New York Fed.
What is a pairs trade?
The pairs trade speculates on the relative firm specific return between two assets.
Do you hold market risk in a pairs trade?
No the market risk should be canceled out by the short side of the trade.
Is the pairs trade a market neutral trading strategy?
Yes, you are both long and short the same amount of market risk.
Is Artificial Intelligence used in investment management?
Yes, many investments funds are using Artificial Intelligence.
In what year was the market affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19)?
The market was affected in 2020.
When are two time series cointegrated?
When a linear combination of the two has a zero mean and no unit root.
What is a weakly stationary time series?
A time series with constant mean and where the covariance with past series only depends on the lag.
What does the term stochastic mean?
It denotes a random variable indexed over time.
What are stochastic differential equations?
Differential equations which include random processes.
Can geometric Brownian motion ever become negative?
No, geometric Brownian motion takes only positive values.
For what do we use geometric Brownian motion?
We use geometric Brownian motion to model stock prices.
What is Ethereum?
Ethereum is a decentralized, blockchain, that allows users to create smart contracts.
What is Ether?
Ether is the cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain.
What is a cryptocurrency?
A cryptocurrency is a decentralized digital currency which uses cryptography to handle transactions and currency creation.
What is an Ethereum smart contract?
It is a contract between two accounts that resides on the Ethereum blockchain.
What is a measurable function?
A function that, for any outcome, we can determine the measure of the domain that leads to that outcome.
Is the sum of normal distributions also normally distributed?
Yes, the sum is also normally distributed.
What is another name for a normal distribution?
Another name is a Gaussian distribution.
What is a white noise process?
A time series process which is serially uncorrelated and has a constant mean and variance.
What does GARCH stand for?
GARCH stands for Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity.
What does ARCH stand for?
ARCH stands for Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity.
For what do you use an ARCH or GARCH model?
To model changes in the volatility of returns.
What is the leverage effect?
The observation that volatility responds more to falls in prices than rises.
Does the GARCH model account for the leverage effect?
No, the GARCH model treats rises and falls in prices equally.
Does the EGARCH model account for the leverage effect?
Yes, the EGARCH model distinguishes between positive and negative returns.
How can you test for a unit root in a time series?
You can use an Augmented Dickey-Fuller test.
Can you trade foreign currencies via ETF?
Yes, FXE and FXY are ETFs for the euro and yen respectively.
What is a gamma squeeze?
When gamma becomes high near expiration those delta hedging may have to heavily trade the underlying.
What does the Greek Delta measure?
Delta measures the sensitivity of the option price to the underlying asset.
What does the Greek Gamma measure?
Gamma measures the rate of change of the Delta.
What is the practical significance of an option's Gamma?
It is a measure of how often a Delta hedged portfolio will have to be rebalanced.
What does the option Greek theta measure?
It measures the time decay of the option's premium.
What does the option Greek vega measure?
It measures the sensitivity of the option premium to changes in the underlying's volatility.
What does the option Greek rho measure?
It measures the sensitivity of the option premium to changes in the risk-free rate.
Is it common to hedge an option's theta?
No, because the passage of time is not random.
Is it important when delta hedging an option to also hedge gamma?
Yes, particularly if the underlying may make large moves in price.
Is it common to hedge an option's vega?
Yes, a stock often has large changes in volatility.
Is it common to hedge an option's rho?
No, the risk-free rate is fairly stable over the life of an option.
What is the ticker of GameStop corp?
Gamestop's ticker is GME.
If a country's currency declines, does this have an effect on the country's inflation rate?
Yes, a declining currency increases inflation.
Why does a declining currency increase inflation.
Because imports cost more and therefore allow domestic producers to raise prices.
What is a DRIP?
A dividend reinvestment program.
What does a DRIP do?
It automatically buys stock with the stock's dividend payments.
What is a short squeeze?
When shorts are forced to buy due to losses but they have to buy at increasing prices because few shares are available.
What is the effect on the price from a short squeeze?
The price can increase dramatically, often far above a reasonable value.
Can an option's implied volatility be greater than 100%?
Yes, there is no upper limit on implied volatility.
Can an option's implied volatility be less than 0?
No, implied volatility is strictly positive.
If option implied volatility gets larger, what happens to out-of-the-money call deltas?
Out-of-the-money call deltas get larger.
What does it mean when a central bank eases monetary policy?
It means lower interest rates and a larger money supply.
Does the financial press try to inform investors or create noise traders?
The financial press attempts to create noise traders.
Do market makers profit from informed or noise traders?
Market makers profit from noise traders.
Do market makers lose to the informed?
Yes, the informed only trade when it is disadvantageous to the market maker.
If you are a broker, is it easier to sell your customer order flow if they are informed or clueless?
It is easier to sell if your customers are clueless.
What is Nokia's ticker symbol?
Nokia's ticker is NOK.
Is gold a good investment?
No.
Why do people buy gold?
They think it is an inflation hedge.
Where are Bitcoin futures traded?
Bitcoin futures are traded on the CME.
What is a common ticker used for Bitcoin?
A common ticker is BTC.
What does SOFR stand for?
SOFR stand for Secured Overnight Funding Rate.
Why is SOFR important?
SOFR is a likely replacement for LIBOR.
What is the Julia Programming language?
It is a high-level language for numerical computing that is nearly as fast as C.
If the underlying's volatility increases what happens to a call option's price?
The call option's price increases.
If the underlying's volatility increases what happens to a put option's price?
The put option's price increases.
What does EBIT stand for?
EBIT stands for Earnings Before Interest and Taxes.
What does EBITDA stand for?
EBITDA stands for Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization.
Can electricity prices be negative?
Yes, and negative electricity prices are not uncommon.
Can stock prices be negative?
No, due to limited liability. 
When do you receive a margin call?
When your percent margin equals your maintenance margin.
How do you calculate your margin percent?
Your margin percent is your position equity divided by the market value of your position.
What is a junk bond?
It is a bond rated below investment-grade.
Do foreign investors generally buy US municipal bonds?
No, because they can't take advantage of the tax status and the bonds have a low yield.
What does DeFi stand for?
DeFi stand for decentralized finance.
Where do we get the name for the programming language Lisp?
Lisp stand for List Processing.
What is the ticker for the 10-year Treasury note futures contract traded on the CME?
The ticker is ZN.
For which months are there contracts on NYMEX Natural Gas (ticker NG)?
There are contracts for every month.
For which months are there contracts on NYMEX Crude Oil (ticker CL)?
There are contracts for every month.
What does ETF stand for?
ETF stand for Exchange Traded Fund.
What does ETN stand for?
ETN stand for Exchange Traded Note.
What does OTC stand for?
OTC stand for over the counter.
How do you calculate a company's market capitalization?
A company's market capitalization is its share price times the number of shares outstanding.
What does market cap mean?
Market cap is short for market capitalization.
How do you measure the total size of a company?
By its enterprise value.
How to you calculate a firm's enterprise value?
Enterprise value is market cap plus long-term debt.
What are 2 and 20 fees?
Fees that are 2 percent of AUM and 20% of gains.
What does AUM fees stand for.
AUM fees are fees on all Assets Under Management.
What are LEAPS?
LEAPS are Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities.
What institution controls monetary policy for the euro area?
The European Central Bank.
What report provides financial data for US banks?
Financial data is provided in the call report.
One option contract is for how many options?
An option contract is for 100 options.
The CBOE was created in what year?
The CBOE was created in 1973.
What does CBOE stand for?
CBOE stands for Chicago Board Options Exchange.
What is the crush spread?
The crush spread is the refining margin on soybeans.
What are bank loan loss provisions?
Money set aside by banks to cover future loan losses.
What type of index is the Dow Jones Industrial Average?
It is a price-weighted index.
What type of index is the S&P 500 index.
It is a value-weighted index.
How is an asset's excess return often defined?
Excess return is often defined as the asset's return minus the risk free rate.
How do you calculate a portfolio's information ratio?
First estimate a market model, and then divide the portfolio's alpha by the standard deviation of its residuals.
How do you interpret the information ratio?
The information ratio is the amount of return above the CAPM's prediction per unit of unsystematic risk.
How do you calculate a portfolio's Treynor ratio?
First subtract the risk-free rate from the portfolio's return, then divide the difference by the portfolio's beta coefficient.
How do you interpret Treynor's ratio?
Treynor's ratio is the amount of return above the risk free rate per unit of systematic risk.
What is a key concept in measuring a portfolio's performance?
A key concept is scaling the portfolio's return by the risk taken to earn that return.
Do increases in loan loss reserves shield bank taxes?
No, not for bank's with over $500 million in assets.
If you sell a call option how would you delta hedge?
To delta hedge you should buy delta shares of stock.
What are CDS?
They are essentially insurance for bonds.
What is Hilbert space?
A complete vector space with an inner product.
What is the loss in a neural network?
It is the prediction error we are seeking to minimize.
What is the ticker for mini-sized corn futures on the ECBOT?
The ticker is YC.
What is the ticker for random length lumber futures on the GLOBEX?
The ticker is LB.
For how many bushels of corn is CME mini-corn?
Each CME mini-corn contract is for 1000 bushels.
For how many bushels of corn is CME full-sized corn contract?
Each CME corn contract is for 5000 bushels.
What is the ticker for mini-sized wheat futures on the ECBOT?
The ticker is YW.
What is the ticker for mini-sized soybeans futures on the ECBOT?
The ticker is YK.
What is the Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem?
That a bounded and infinite subset of the real numbers, has a limit point in the real numbers.
What is the ticker for the Micro E-Mini NASDAQ-100 Index futures contract at the CME?
The ticker is MNQ.
What is the multiplier for the Micro E-Mini NASDAQ-100 Index futures contract at the CME?
The multiplier is $2.
What is the multiplier for the E-Mini S&P 500 Index futures contract at the CME?
The multiplier is $50.
What is the multiplier for the Micro E-Mini S&P 500 Index futures contract at the CME?
The multiplier is $5.
What is the ticker for the Micro E-Mini S&P 500 Index futures contract at the CME?
The ticker is MES.
What are the inputs for the Black-Scholes option pricing model?
The inputs are the stock and strike prices, risk-free rate, volatility, and the time to expiration.
How do you get an option's implied volatility using the Black-Scholes model?
You find the volatility which makes the option's value equal to the price in the market.
What is portfolio insurance?
It is a trading strategy which replicates a protective put.
Why do some think portfolio insurance exacerbates market crashes?
Because portfolio insurance sells stock when stock prices fall.
Does portfolio insurance exacerbate market crashes?
Possibly, though market participants are smart enough to stop chasing deltas.
If the risk-free interest rate increases, do Black-Scholes call option values increase or decrease?
The Black-Scholes call option values increase.
What is new with the 2.0 version of Ethereum?
Ethereum is moving from a proof-of-work to a proof-of-stake system.
What does the CPI stand for?
CPI stands for consumer price inflation.
What does PPI stand for?
PPI stands for producer price inflation.
What is the difference between the CPI and PPI?
The CPI measures inflation at the consumer level, and the PPI measures it at the producer level.
Does inflation show up first in the PPI or CPI?
Inflation generally starts in the PPI.
If inflation increases unexpectedly, what happens to stock prices?
Stock prices decline.
What is Coinbase's ticker symbol?
Its ticker is COIN.
Is Bitcoin a currency or an investment?
It should be a currency but it is treated like an investment.
What is Walmart's ticker symbol?
Its ticker symbol is WMT.
What does LBO stand for?
LBO stands for Leveraged Buyout.
Are option grants to the CEO of a acquisition target common?
Yes, and we suspect it is to ensure a friendly acquisition.
Does the target of an acquisition's stock price increase prior to the announcement?
Yes, and the evidence points to information leakage.
How do we measure the target stock price increase prior to the acquisition announcement?
We calculate the target stock's cumulative abnormal return prior to the announcement.
What is one downside of Bitcoin mining?
Bitcoin mining requires a great deal of cheap electricity.
What is the triangle inequality?
The sum of the length of two sides of a triangle is always greater than the length of the third.
What is a stablecoin?
A cryptocurrency which maintains a stable conversion value to a fiat coin.
What does TIPS stand for?
TIPS stands for Treasury Inflation Protected Securities.
What are the goals of the Federal Reserve?
To maintain price stability and ensure maximum employment.
What is the pairs trade?
A market neutral trading strategy which is long one stock and short another.
What is Uniswap?
A protocol which enables parties to exchange ERC-20 tokens.
Does Uniswap require firms to make markets?
No, Uniswap has an automated market making structure.
Are there decentralized money markets for cryptocurrencies?
Yes, and two notable examples are Aave and Compound.
What does DEX stand for?
DEX stands for decentralized exchange.
If inflation increases what happens to stock prices?
The discount rate increases and stock prices decline.
In banking, what does SLR stand for?
SLR sands for the supplementary leverage ratio.
What does the FOMC stand for?
FOMC stands for the Federal Open Market Committee.
Are transaction costs constant in Ethereum?
No, transaction costs fluctuate with the number of transactions taking place.
What is the ticker for an ETF that tracks the energy industry?
XLE is the ticker for an ETF which tracks the energy industry.
Where is the Waha natural gas hub?
The Waha hub is in West Texas near Permian Basin production.
What is Compound.finance?
It is a money-market for Ethereum-based cryptocurrencies.
How do you create a bear call spread?
Buy a call with a higher strike, and sell a call with a lower strike, on the same stock and with the same expiration.
What is monero?
Monero is a privacy-focused cryptocurrency.
What is the CAPE ratio?
The CAPE ratio is a cyclically-adjusted PE ratio.
How do we calculate a asset's abnormal return on a specific day?
We first calculate the expected return on the asset given prior data, and then subtract this from the actual return.
What is QuantLib?
A C++ library for quantitative finance.
What is the Widowmaker spread?
The Widowmaker is the difference between April and March Natural Gas futures.
What is the ticker symbol for the Robinhood brokerage?
The ticker symbol is HOOD.
What makes DeFi resistant to SEC regulation?
DeFi is a set of protocols, and not entities.
Can you compare a firm's ROE with its stock's return?
No, the former is an accounting return and the latter is a market return.
What is the ticker symbol for micro Bitcoin futures on the CME?
The ticker is MBT.
What is Dai?
Dai is a stablecoin cryptocurrency which is backed by collateral.
What does the gamma of an option book measure?
How quickly the book's delta will change.
What is the ticker for Upstart?
Upstart's ticker is UPST.
What does the term flaring mean?
Burning off associated natural gas that cannot be transported from the well.
What is a power plant's heat rate?
It is a measure of the plants thermal efficiency.
What is meant by thermal efficiency?
How much energy is lost to heat when generating electricity.
What is associated natural gas?
Natural gas that is produced when extracting crude oil.
What is Solana?
It is a crypto blockchain which allows for the creation of smart contracts.
In what languages can you write programs on Solana?
You can write programs in Rust, C, and C++.
What is a major downside of buying a futures-based Bitcoin ETF?
The ETF must roll futures contracts every month, generally losing a small amount each time.
What is the main programming language used for quantitative finance?
The main programming language is C++.
What is Rivian Automotive's ticker symbol?
Rivian's ticker is RIVN.
What economic series does PCE stand for?
PCE stands for personal consumption expenditures.
What does EBITDA stand for?
EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. 
If interest rates increase what should happen to stock values?
Stock values should decrease when interest rates increase.
If inflation increases what should happen to stock values?
Stock values should decrease due to higher expected interest rates.
What is the main programming language for smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain?
The main programming language is Solidity.
What are TIPS?
Treasury securities whose principle amounts adjust with inflation.
